CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar 85

*Note:* The finite aspect ratio reduces the lift slope, but the effect of compressibility increases the lift slope. In this example, the two effects almost compensate each other, and the compressible value of the finite-wing lift slope is almost the same as the incompressible value of the airfoil lift slope. The lift coefficient is given by

$$
C_L = a_{\mathrm{comp}}(\alpha - \alpha_{L=0})
$$

where $a_{\mathrm{comp}} = 5.73/57.3 = 0.1$ per degree. Hence,

$$
C_L = 0.1[6 - (-2.2)] = \boxed{0.82}
$$

---

Calculate the lift coefficient for a high-aspect-ratio straight wing with a thin symmetric airfoil at an angle of attack of $6^\circ$ in a supersonic flow in Mach 2.5.                         **Example 2.7**

## Solution

From Eq. (2.17),

$$
a_{\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{4}{\sqrt{M_\infty^2 - 1}} = \frac{4}{\sqrt{(2.5)^2 - 1}} = 1.746 \text{ per radian}
$$

or

$$
a_{\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{1.746}{57.3} = 0.0305 \text{ per degree}
$$

Hence,

$$
C_L = a_{\mathrm{comp}}\alpha = 0.0305(6) = \boxed{0.183}
$$

*Note:* Comparing this lift coefficient at Mach 2.5 with those obtained in Examples 2.5 and 2.6, we see that the magnitude of the supersonic lift coefficient is considerably smaller than that of the subsonic values (even taking into account the different zero-lift angles of attack).

---

## Low-Aspect-Ratio Straight Wings

When applied to straight wings at AR $< 4$, Eq. (2.15) progressively yields poorer results as the aspect ratio is reduced. Why? The reason is that Eq. (2.15) is derived from a theoretical model which represents the finite wing with a single lifting line across the span of the wing. This is a good model when the aspect ratio is large; by examining the sketch in Fig. 2.25a, it is intuitively clear that a long, narrow wing planform might be reasonably modeled by a single lifting line from one wing tip to the other. However, when the aspect ratio is small, such as sketched in Fig. 2.25b, the same intuition leads to some misgivings—how can a short, stubby wing be properly modeled by a single lifting line? The fact is—it cannot. Instead of a single spanwise lifting line, the low-aspect-ratio wing must be modeled by a large number of spanwise vortices, each located at a different chordwise station, such as sketched in Fig. 2.25c. This is the essence of *lifting surface theory*. Today, the general concept of a lifting surface is the basis for a large number of *panel codes*—elaborate computer programs which numerically solve for the inviscid aerodynamic wing properties—lift slope, zero-lift angle of attack, moment coefficients, and induced