CHAPTER 1 • The Evolution of the Airplane and Its Performance: A Short History

15

However, a recent in-house study by Dr. Howard Wolko, a mechanical and aerospace engineer now retired from the National Air and Space Museum, showed that the Langley aerodrome was *structurally* unsound—a result certainly in keeping with the aerodrome’s failure, shown in Fig. 1.10. This illustrates a basic tenet of any system design, such as an airplane or a stereo system, namely, that the system is no better than its weakest link. In Langley’s case, in spite of excellent propulsion and adequate aerodynamics, it was the poor structural design that resulted in failure of the whole system.

In spite of this failure, Langley deserves a lot of credit for his aeronautical work in the pre-Wright era. You experience some of the legacy left by Langley’s name everytime you walk into the Langley Theater at the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, or visit the NASA Langley Research Center, built right beside Langley Air Force Base in Hampton, Virginia.

The story of Langley’s aeronautical work is covered in much greater detail in Refs. 8 through 10, among others. In particular, Ref. 8 contains a detailed discussion of Langley’s aerodynamics, and Ref. 10 has an extremely interesting and compelling presentation of the human dynamics associated with Langley’s overall quest to build a flying machine.

## 1.2.2 Era of Strut-and-Wire Biplanes

The 1903 *Wright Flyer* ushered in the era of successful strut-and-wire biplanes—an era that covers the general period from 1903 to 1930. Unlike Langley’s full-scale aerodrome, there were no fatal “weak links” in the design of the *Wright Flyer*. There is no doubt in this author’s mind that Orville and Wilbur Wright were the first *true* aeronautical engineers in history. With the 1903 *Wright Flyer*, they had gotten it all right—the propulsion, aerodynamic, structural, and control aspects were carefully calculated and accounted for during its design. The Wright brothers were the first to fully understand the airplane as a whole and complete system, in which the individual components had to work in a complementary fashion so that the integrated system would perform as desired. A three-view drawing of the 1903 *Wright Flyer* is shown in Fig. 1.11.

Volumes have been written about the Wright brothers and their flying machines—their story is one of the greatest success stories in the history of technology. In our brief review of the evolution of the airplane in this chapter, it is perhaps better to defer to these volumes of literature than to attempt to relate the Wright brothers’s story—we simply do not have space to do it justice. You are referred particularly to the authors’s discussions of the Wright brothers in chapter 1 of Ref. 3, and in Ref. 9. The study by Jakab (Ref. 1) is an excellent portrait of the inventive processes of the Wright brothers as they created the first successful airplane. Similarly, Tom Crouch in his book *The Bishop’s Boys* (Ref. 11) has painted an excellent humanistic portrait of the Wright brothers and their family as people caught up in this whirlwind of inventiveness—Crouch’s book is the most definitive biography of the Wrights to date. For an extensive discussion of the Wright brothers’ aerodynamics, see Ref. 8.