# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

In these examples, the root airfoil section is relatively thick (about 15% to 17%), and the wing airfoil shape tapers to a thinner section at the tip (about 12%). There are good reasons for this. Structurally, the wing bending moment is greatest at the root; a thicker airfoil readily allows the design for greater structural strength at the root. Aerodynamically, an 18% airfoil will stall at a lower angle of attack than a 12% airfoil. Hence, a wing which has airfoil sections which taper from 18% thick at the root to 12% thick at the tip will tend to stall first at the wing root, with attached flow still at the tip. The resulting buffeting that occurs at stall at the root is a warning to the pilot, while at the same time the ailerons remain effective because flow is still attached at the tip—both distinct advantages. Finally, a thicker wing section at the root allows additional volume for the storage of fuel in the wing.

For all these reasons, we make an initial choice of the airfoil section for our airplane design as follows: at the root, an NACA 23018 section (Fig. 8.3); at the tip, an NACA 23012 section (Fig. 8.4). We will assume that a linear interpolation between the root and tip defines the local airfoil sections elsewhere along the wing. The resulting $(C_L)_{\max}$ for the wing will be an average of the root and tip section values, depending on the planform taper ratio and the degree of geometric twist of the wing (if there is any). Also $(C_L)_{\max}$ for the finite wing is less than that for the airfoil due to three-dimensional flow effects. Since we have not laid out the planform shape or twist distribution yet, we will assume that $(C_L)_{\max}$ is a simple average of those for the airfoil sections at the root and tip, reduced by 10% for the effect of a finite aspect ratio. For the NACA 23018, from Fig. 8.3, $(c_l)_{\max} = 1.6$; for the NACA 23012, from Fig. 8.4, $(c_l)_{\max} = 1.8$. Taking the average, we have for the average airfoil maximum lift coefficient for our wing

$$
\text{Average } (c_l)_{\max} = \frac{1.6 + 1.8}{2} = 1.7
$$

To aid in the takeoff and landing performance, we will design the wing with trailing-edge flaps. For simplicity (and hence production cost savings), we choose a simple plain flap. From Fig. 5.28, such a flap deflected $45^\circ$ will yield an increase in the airfoil maximum lift coefficient $\Delta(c_l)_{\max} = 0.9$. Hence, for our average airfoil maximum lift coefficient, we have

$$
\text{Average } (c_l)_{\max} \text{ with } 45^\circ \text{ flap deflection} = 1.7 + 0.9 = 2.6
$$

Finally, to account for the three-dimensional effect of the finite aspect ratio, Raymer (Ref. 25) suggests that, for finite wings with aspect ratio greater than 5,

$$
(C_L)_{\max} = 0.9(c_l)_{\max}
$$

[8.24]

Since we are designing a low-speed business, general aviation airplane, where efficient cruise is important, we most certainly will have a wing with an asepct ratio greater than 5. Hence, we use, as a preliminary estimate of maximum lift coefficient, from