# CHAPTER 1 • The Evolution of the Airplane and Its Performance: A Short History

11

Charles H. Gibbs-Smith (Ref. 7), commenting on Maxim's efforts: "It had all been time and money wasted. Maxim's contribution to aviation was virtually nil, and he influenced nobody." This indeed was the fate of all would-be inventors of the airplane during the nineteenth century who followed the chauffeur's philosophy. We mention Maxim here only because he is a classic example of this philosophy.

The antithesis of the chauffeur's philosophy was the "airman's" approach. This latter philosophy simply held that, in order to design a successful flying machine, it was necessary to first get up in the air and experience flight with a vehicle unencumbered by a power plant; that is, you should learn to fly *before* putting an engine on the aircraft. The person who introduced and pioneered the airman's philosophy was Otto Lilienthal, a German mechanical engineer, who designed and flew the first successful gliders in history. Lilienthal first carried out a long series of carefully organized aerodynamic experiments, covering a period of about 20 years, from which he clearly demonstrated the aerodynamic superiority of cambered (curved) airfoils in comparison to flat, straight surfaces. His experiments were extensive and meticulously carried out. They were published in 1890 in a book entitled *Der Vogelflug als Grundlage der Fliegekunst* (Bird Flight as the Basis of Aviation); this book was far and away the most important and definitive contribution to the budding science of aerodynamics to appear in the nineteenth century. It greatly influenced aeronautical design for the next 15 years, and was the bible for the early work of the Wright brothers. Among other contributions, Lilienthal presented drag polars in his book—the first drag polars to be published in the history of aeronautical engineering. (We will define and discuss drag polars in Chapter 2—they reflect all the aerodynamic information necessary for the performance analysis of an airplane.) Lilienthal's aerodynamic research led to a quantum jump in aerodynamics at the end of the nineteenth century. (See the extensive analysis of Lilienthal's aerodynamics contained in Ref. 8.)

During the period from 1891 through 1896, Lilienthal designed, built, and flew a number of gliders. With these successful glider flights, over 2,000 during the 5-year period, he personified the airman's philosophy. A photograph of Lilienthal on one of his gliders is shown in Fig. 1.8; he supported himself by grasping a bar with his arms, and the part of his body below his chest and shoulders simply dangled below the wings. He controlled his gliders by swinging his body—he was indeed the inventor of the hang glider. With these glider flights, Lilienthal advanced the cause of aeronautics by leaps and bounds. Many of his flights were public demonstrations; his fame spread far and wide. In the United States, stories and photographs of his flights were carried in popular magazines—the Wright brothers read about Lilienthal in *McClure's* magazine, a popular periodical of that day. Lilienthal was a professional mechanical engineer with a university degree, hence he had some credibility—and there he was, gliding through the air on machines of his own design. With this, the general public moved a little closer to acceptance that the quest for powered, heavier-than-air flight was respectable and serious.

On Sunday, August 9, 1896, Otto Lilienthal was once again flying from Gollenberg Hill in the Rhinow mountains, about 100 kilometers (km) northwest of Berlin. His first flight went well. However, during his second glide he encountered an unexpected sharp gust of air; his glider pitched up and stalled. Lilienthal violently swung