398  
PART 3 • Airplane Design

## 8.2 REQUIREMENTS

We are given the job of designing a light, business transport aircraft which will carry five passengers plus the pilot in relative comfort in a pressurized cabin. The specified performance is to be as follows:

1. Maximum level speed at midcruise weight: 250 mi/h.
2. Range: 1,200 mi.
3. Ceiling: 25,000 ft.
4. Rate of climb at sea level: 1,000 ft/min.
5. Stalling speed: 70 mi/h.
6. Landing distance (to clear a 50-ft obstacle): 2,200 ft.
7. Takeoff distance (to clear a 50-ft obstacle): 2,500 ft.

In addition, the airplane should be powered by one (or more) conventional reciprocating engine.

The stipulation of these requirements constitutes an example of the first pivot point in Fig. 7.3.

## 8.3 THE WEIGHT OF AN AIRPLANE AND ITS FIRST ESTIMATE

As noted in Fig. 7.3, the second pivot point in our conceptual design analysis is the preliminary (almost crude) estimation of the gross weight of the airplane. Let us take this opportunity to discuss the nature of the weight of an airplane in detail.

There are various ways to subdivide and categorize the weight components of an airplane. The following is a common choice.

1. *Crew weight* $W_{\text{crew}}$. The crew comprises the people necessary to operate the airplane in flight. For our airplane, the crew is simply the pilot.
2. *Payload weight* $W_{\text{payload}}$. The payload is what the airplane is intended to transport—passengers, baggage, freight, etc. If the airplane is intended for military combat use, the payload includes bombs, rockets, and other disposable ordnance.
3. *Fuel weight* $W_{\text{fuel}}$. This is the weight of the fuel in the fuel tanks. Since fuel is consumed during the course of the flight, $W_{\text{fuel}}$ is a variable, decreasing with time during the flight.
4. *Empty weight* $W_{\text{empty}}$. This is the weight of everything else—the structure, engines (with all accessory equipment), electronic equipment (including radar, computers, communication devices, etc.), landing gear, fixed equipment (seats, galleys, etc.), and anything else that is not crew, payload, or fuel.