# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

$$
t_{\min}=\frac{1}{b}[\ln(a+bh_2)-\ln a]
$$

$$
=\frac{1}{-2.52\times10^{-3}}\left\{\ln\left[179.9-(2.52\times10^{-3})(30,000)\right]-\ln179.9\right\}
$$

$$
=216.3\ \mathrm{s}=3.61\ \mathrm{min}
$$

This is to be compared to the graphical result of $t_{\min}=3.51$ min obtained from Example 5.17. Our approximate analytical calculation agrees to within 2.8%.

## 5.13 RANGE

Imagine that you are getting ready to fly across the Atlantic Ocean, say, leaving Dulles airport in Washington, D.C., and flying to Heathrow airport near London. You may be going for business or pleasure, but in either case, when you step on the airplane and it takes off, you will not touch land again until you have covered the 3,665 mi between Dulles and Heathrow. You take for granted that the airplane can cover this distance without running out of fuel. Indeed, the aeronautical engineers who designed the airplane made certain that you will cover this distance on one load of fuel. They designed the airplane to have enough range to cross the Atlantic and get you safely to London.

How did they do this? What airplane design features and operating parameters ensure that you will cover enough distance to arrive safely at Heathrow? The general answer to this question is the subject of this section.

By definition, *range* is the total distance (measured with respect to the ground) traversed by an airplane on one load of fuel. We denote the range by $R$. We also consider the following weights:

$W_0$—gross weight of the airplane including *everything*; full fuel load, payload, crew, structure, etc.

$W_f$—weight of fuel; this is an instantaneous value, and it changes as fuel is consumed during flight.

$W_1$—weight of the airplane when the fuel tanks are empty.

At any instant during the flight, the weight of the airplane $W$ is

$$
W=W_1+W_f
$$

$$
\tag{5.142}
$$

Since $W_f$ is decreasing during the flight, $W$ is also decreasing. Indeed, the time rate of change of weight is, from Eq. (5.142),

$$
\frac{dW}{dt}=\frac{dW_f}{dt}=\dot{W}_f
$$

$$
\tag{5.143}
$$