From Eq. (9.1) the terms $V_\infty/c_t$ and $\eta_{pr}/c$ are entirely equivalent; they are the same measure of propulsive efficiency. The dimensions are power multiplied by time per unit weight of fuel consumed, for example, hp-h/lb. The higher this value is, the more horsepower for a longer time is obtained from 1 lb of fuel. The units of $\eta_{pr}/c$ on the ordinate of Fig. 9.3b are hp-h/lb. Note from this figure that the propulsive efficiency for the two famous Boeing propeller-driven bombers from World War II, the B-17 and the B-29, was on the order of 2 hp-h/lb at low Mach numbers, whereas the propulsive efficiency for a jet in 1945 was considerably smaller, on the order of 0.2 hp-h/lb, at the same low Mach numbers. However, note that the variations of $\eta_{pr}/c$ and $V_\infty/c_t$ with $V_\infty$ are totally different (Mach number rather than $V_\infty$ is used as the abscissa in Fig. 9.3b, but it makes no difference in the variations shown). For the term $\eta_{pr}/c$, $c$ is relatively constant with velocity (see Section 3.3.1), but the propeller efficiency dramatically drops at higher speeds due to compressibility effects (shock waves) at the propeller tips. For the cases of the B-17 and B-29 in Fig. 9.3b, $\eta_{pr}/c$ is therefore relatively constant with $M_\infty$ until these compressibility effects are encountered, beyond which $\eta_{pr}$ (hence $\eta_{pr}/c$) plummets. On the other hand, consider the term $V_\infty/c_t$ for a jet. The value of $c_t$ is approximately constant with velocity, although it may increase mildly with velocity as indicated in Section 3.4.1. However, the major velocity variation of $V_\infty/c_t$ is due to the presence of $V_\infty$ in the numerator, and this is why a linear increase of propulsive efficiency with velocity is shown for a jet in Fig. 9.3b. At higher Mach numbers, this increase in the jet propulsive efficiency makes the jet airplane more viable, although the propulsive efficiency is still lower than that for the propeller-driven bombers at lower speeds. During the design of the B-47, the propulsive efficiency was estimated to be about 1.1 hp-h/lb, still only about one-half that achieved by the propeller-driven piston-engine airplanes. This deficiency in propulsive efficiency for the jet caused many people to feel at the time that a long-range strategic bomber would still have to be propeller-driven, with either piston engines or turboprops.

Faced with this reality, the Boeing design team faced a challenge; their response was to work hard on the other terms in the range equation. Given a relatively poor value of $V_\infty/c_t$ in Eq. (5.152), the only other possibilities to obtain a reasonable range are to increase both $L/D$ and $W_0/W_1$ in Eq. (5.152). Hence this is the reason for the high-aspect-ratio wing of the B-47, shown in Fig. 9.3a. Also, the fuel capacity was made large, giving the B-47 a much larger $W_0/W_1$, as shown in Fig. 9.3c. With the larger $L/D$ and $W_0/W_1$, the range of the B-47 was made even better than that of the B-17 and of the B-29; the data shown in Fig. 9.3 give the relative ranges of the B-47, B-29, and B-17 in the approximate ratio of 17 : 13 : 7. The design challenge had been met.

## 9.2.2 Design of the 707 Civil Jet Transport

The pioneering design technology that had been accrued during the B-47 project evolved into the first successful civil jet transport, the Boeing 707. These two airplanes are compared in three-view in Fig. 9.4. The design of the B-47 had been revolutionary;