# CHAPTER 1 • The Evolution of the Airplane and Its Performance: A Short History

Finally, the structural features of the *Wright Flyer* were patterned partly after the work of Octave Chanute and partly after their own experience in designing bicycles. Chanute, inspired by the gliding flights of Lilienthal, carried out tests of gliders of his own design beginning in 1896. The most important technical feature of Chanute's gliders was the sturdy and lightweight Pratt-truss method of rigging a biplane structure. (Chanute was a civil engineer, noted in part for designing and building bridges; it is natural that he would have exercised his expertise in the structural design of flying machines.) The Wright brothers adopted the Pratt-truss system for the *Wright Flyer* directly from Chanute's work. Other construction details of the *Wright Flyer* took advantage of the Wrights's experience in designing and building sturdy but lightweight bicycles. When it was finished, engine included, the empty weight of the *Wright Flyer* was 605 lb. With a 150-lb person on board, the empty weight-gross weight ratio was 0.8. By comparison, the empty weight of the Fokker E-III designed 10 years later was 878 lb, and the empty weight-gross weight ratio was 0.65, not greatly different from that of the *Wright Flyer*. Considering that 10 years of progress in aircraft structural design had been made between the 1903 flyer and the Fokker E-III, the structural design of the 1903 *Wright Flyer* certainly seems technically advanced for its time. And the fact that the flyer was structurally sound was certainly well demonstrated on December 17, 1903. Clearly, the Wrights had the structural aspect of airplane design well in hand.

In summary, the Wright brothers had gotten it right. All the components of their system worked properly and harmonically—propulsion, aerodynamics, control, and structures. There were no fatal weak links. The reason for this was the natural inventiveness and engineering abilities of Orville and Wilbur Wright. The design of the *Wright Flyer* is a classic first study in good aeronautical engineering. There can be no doubt that the Wright brothers were the first true aeronautical engineers.

The *Wright Flyer* ushered in the era of strut-and-wire biplanes, and it basically set the pattern for subsequent airplane design during this era. The famous World War I fighter airplanes—such as the French Nieuport 17 and the SPAD XIII, the German Fokker D. VII, and the British Sopwith Camel—were in many respects "souped-up" Wright flyers. The principal technical improvements contained in these later biplanes are described below.

First, the wing-warping method of roll control used by the Wrights was quickly supplanted by ailerons in most other aircraft. (The idea of flaplike surfaces at the trailing edges of airplane wings can be traced to two Englishmen: M. P. W. Boulton, who patented a concept for lateral control by ailerons in 1868; and Richard Harte, who also filed for a similar patent in 1870. In both cases, neither man truly understood the function of these devices, and since there existed no successful flying machines at that time which could demonstrate the use of ailerons, the idea and the patents were quickly forgotten.) Ailerons in the form of triangular "winglets" that projected beyond the usual wingtips were used in 1908 by Glenn Curtiss on his *June Bug* airplane; flying the *June Bug*, Curtiss won the Scientific American Prize on July 4, 1908, for the first public flight of 1000 meters (m) or longer. By 1909, Curtiss had designed an improved airplane, the *Gold Bug*, with rectangular ailerons located midway between the upper