204

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

4. Calculate drag, hence $T_R$, from

$$
T_R = D = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_D
$$

This is the value of $T_R$ corresponding to the velocity chosen in step 1. This combination $(T_R, V_\infty)$ is one point on the thrust required curve.

5. Repeat steps 1 to 4 for a large number of different values of $V_\infty$, thus generating enough points to plot the thrust required curve.

## Example 5.1

Consider the Gulfstream IV twin-turbofan executive transport shown in Fig. 5.1. Calculate and plot the thrust required curve at an altitude of 30,000 ft, assuming a weight of 73,000 lb. Airplane data: $S = 950\ \mathrm{ft}^2$, $AR = 5.92$, $C_{D,0} = 0.015$, and $K = 0.08$. Hence the drag polar in the form given by Eq. (5.5) is

$$
C_D = 0.015 + 0.08C_L^2
$$

*Note:* The above drag polar for the Gulfstream IV is only an educated guess by the author. Drag polar information for specific airplanes is sometimes difficult to find in the open literature because it is often proprietary to the manufacturer. The value of 0.015 chosen for $C_{D,0}$ is based on a generic value typical of streamlined, multiengine jet aircraft. The value of 0.08 chosen for $K$ is estimated by first calculating $k_3$ in Eq. (2.44), where $k_3 = 1/(\pi e AR)$. Assuming a span efficiency factor $e = 0.9$, we have

$$
k_3 = \frac{1}{\pi e AR} = \frac{1}{\pi(0.9)(5.92)} = 0.06
$$

In Eq. (2.44), assume $k_1$ (associated with the increase in parasite drag due to lift) is about $\frac{1}{3}k_3$. Also, assume no wave drag, hence in Eq. (2.44), $k_2 = 0$. Thus, $K = k_1 + k_2 + k_3 = 0.02 + 0 + 0.06 = 0.08$. Because of these assumptions, the drag polar used in this calculation is only an approximation for the Gulfstream IV, and hence the computed results (and any of the related results to follow) are only an approximate representation of the performance of the Gulfstream IV as opposed to a precisely accurate result for the real airplane.

To calculate a point on the thrust required curve, let us follow the four-step procedure described earlier.

1. Choose $V_\infty = 500\ \mathrm{ft/s}$.

2. At a standard altitude of 30,000 ft (see Appendix B),

$$
\rho_\infty = 8.9068 \times 10^{-4}\ \mathrm{slug/ft}^3
$$

$$
C_L = \frac{2W}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S} = \frac{2(73,000)}{(8.9068 \times 10^{-4})(500)^2(950)} = 0.6902
$$

3. $C_D = C_{D,0} + KC_L^2 = 0.015 + 0.08(0.69)^2 = 0.0531$

4. $T_R = D = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_D = \frac{1}{2}(8.9068 \times 10^{-4})(500)^2(950)(0.053) = 5,617\ \mathrm{lb}$

Hence, to maintain straight and level flight at a velocity of 500 ft/s at an altitude of 30,000 ft, the airplane requires 5,617 lb of thrust. The calculation of other points on the thrust required curve for other velocities is tabulated in Table 5.1.