# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

467

Arthur Raymond, Kindleberger's assistant, who had earned a master's degree in aeronautical engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1921 (one of the few people with graduate degrees in aeronautical engineering at that time), was immediately thinking about the wing design. He suggested: "Why not use a modified version of Jack Northrop's taper wing? Its airfoil characteristics are good. The taper and slight sweepback will give us some latitude with the center of gravity." Raymond was referring to the innovative wing design by Jack Northrop, who had worked for Douglas between 1923 and 1927 and then left for Lockheed, finally forming his own company in 1931. (This is the same company that today builds the B-2 stealth bomber.) Northrop had developed a special cantilever wing which derived exceptional strength from a series of individual aluminum sections fastened together to form a multicellular structure. The wing is the heart of an airplane, and Raymond's thinking was immediately focused on it. He also wanted to place the wing low enough on the fuselage that the wing spars would not cut through the passenger cabin (as was the case with the Boeing 247). Such a structurally strong wing offered some other advantages. The engine mounts could be projected ahead of the wing leading edge, placing the engines and propellers far enough forward to obtain some aerodynamic advantage from the propeller slipstream blowing over the wing, without causing the wing to twist. Also, the decision was to design the airplane with a retractable landing gear. In that regard Douglas said: "The Boeing's got one. We'd better plan on it too. It should cut down on the drag by 20 percent." Kindelberger then suggested: "Just make the nacelles bigger. Then we can hide the wheels in the nacelles." The strong wing design could handle the weight of both the engines and the landing gear.

The early 1930s was a period when airplane designers were becoming appreciative of the advantages of streamlining in order to reduce aerodynamic drag. (See Ref. 8 for a detailed discussion of this history.) Retracting the landing gear was part of streamlining. Another aspect was the radial engines. Fred Stineman, another of Douglas's talented designers, added to the discussion: "If we wrap the engines themselves in the new NACA cowlings, taking advantage of the streamlining, it should give us a big gain in top speed." This referred to the research at NACA Langley Memorial Laboratory, beginning in 1928, that rapidly led to the NACA cowling, a shroud wrapped around the cylinders of air-cooled radial engines engineered to greatly reduce drag and increase the cooling of the engine. At this stage of the conversation, Ed Burton, another senior design engineer, voiced a concern: "The way we're talking, it sounds like we are designing a racing plane. What about this 65 mi/h landing speed Frye wants?" This problem was immediately addressed by yet another senior design engineer, Fred Herman, who expressed his opinion: "The way I see it, we're going to have to come up with some kind of an air brake, maybe a flap deal that will increase the wing area during the critical landing moment and slow the plane down . . . . Conversely, it will give us more lift on takeoff, help tote that big payload."

The deliberations extended into days. However, after a week of give-and-take discussions, they all agreed that the airplane design would

1. Be a low-wing monoplane.

2. Use a modified version of the Northrop wing.