# 5.10 RATE OF CLIMB

Imagine that you are flying an airplane, and you suddenly encounter a major obstacle ahead—a large building, a hill, or even a mountain. The ability of your airplane to fly up and over such obstacles depends critically on its climbing characteristics. Or, imagine that you encounter bad weather or turbulence at some altitude, and you want to get out of it by climbing quickly to a higher altitude. How fast you can do this depends on the climbing characteristics of your airplane. Or, imagine that you are a military fighter pilot, and you scramble to take off and intercept a target at some prescribed altitude. You need to get to that target as soon as possible; how soon you can do so depends on the climbing characteristics of your airplane. For these and other reasons, the climb performance of an airplane is an essential part of the overall performance scenario. Climb performance is the subject of this section.

The previous sections of this chapter have dealt with steady, *level* flight of an airplane. In this section we change our focus to an airplane in steady, unaccelerated *climbing* flight. This case was introduced in Chapter 4, and a sketch of an airplane in climbing flight is shown in Fig. 4.2. Return to Fig. 4.2 and study it carefully. Note that the climb angle $\theta$, is defined as the angle between the instantaneous flight path direction (the direction of the relative wind $V_\infty$) and the horizontal. (Please note that $\theta$ is *not* the angle of attack of the airplane—a misconception frequently held initially by students new to the subject. The angle of attack, not labeled in Fig. 4.2, is as usual the angle between the chord line and the relative wind.) The equations of motion for accelerated flight along a curved flight path are given by Eqs. (4.5) to (4.7). Please review the derivation and discussion of these equations in Chapter 4 before going on.

In this section we consider steady (unaccelerated) climb. Hence, in Eq. (4.5), $dV_\infty/dt = 0$; in Eq. (4.6), $V_\infty^2/r_1 = 0$; and in Eq. (4.7), $(V_\infty \cos \delta)^2/r_2 = 0$. The latter two statements imply $r_1 \rightarrow \infty$ and $r_2 \rightarrow \infty$, that is, flight along a straight path. This also implies that the bank angle $\phi$ is zero. The equations of motion for this case become, from Eqs. (4.5) and (4.6),

$$
T \cos \epsilon - D - W \sin \theta = 0
$$
[5.73]

$$
L + T \sin \epsilon - W \cos \theta = 0
$$
[5.74]

Furthermore, for simplicity, we assume the thrust line is in the direction of flight, that is, $\epsilon = 0$. Hence, Eqs. (5.73) and (5.74) become, respectively,

$$
T - D - W \sin \theta = 0
$$
[5.75]

$$
L - W \cos \theta = 0
$$
[5.76]

The force diagram consistent with Eqs. (5.75) and (5.76) is shown in Fig. 5.32, which is a specialized version of Fig. 4.2.

The inset in Fig. 5.32 is a vector diagram resolving the velocity of the airplane $V_\infty$ into its horizontal and vertical components $V_H$ and $V_v$, respectively. In particular, the vertical component is, by definition, the *rate of climb* of the airplane; we denote