CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane 411

From Eq. (6.106), the flare height $h_f$ is given by

$$
h_f = R(1 - \cos \theta_a) = 2{,}477(1 - \cos 3^\circ) = 3.4\ \text{ft}
$$

Finally, from Eq. (6.108), the approach distance required to clear a 50-ft obstacle is given by

$$
s_a = \frac{50 - h_f}{\tan \theta_a} = \frac{50 - 3.4}{\tan 3^\circ} = 889\ \text{ft}
$$

The flare distance $s_f$ is given by Eq. (6.109):

$$
s_f = R \sin \theta_a = 2{,}477 \sin 3^\circ = 130\ \text{ft}
$$

An approximation for ground roll $s_g$ is given by Eq. (6.123). In that equation, let us assume that lift has been intentionally made small by retracting the flaps combined with a small angle of attack due to the rather level orientation of the airplane relative to the ground. (We are assuming that we will use tricycle landing gear for the airplane.) Furthermore, assuming no provision for thrust reversal, and ignoring the drag compared to the friction force between the tires and the ground, Eq. (6.123) simplifies further to

$$
s_g = jN \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{(C_L)_{\max}}} + \frac{j^2(W/S)}{g\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}\mu_r}
\qquad [8.28]
$$

As stated in Section 6.8.3, $j = 1.15$ for commercial airplanes. Also, $N$ is the time increment for free roll immediately after touchdown, before the brakes are applied. By assuming $N = 3\ \text{s}$ and $\mu = 0.4$, Eq. (8.28) becomes

$$
s_g = (1.15)(3)\sqrt{\frac{2}{0.002377}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{2.34}} + \frac{(1.15)^2(W/S)}{(32.2)(0.002377)(2.34)(0.4)}
$$

or

$$
s_g = 65.4\sqrt{\frac{W}{S}} + 18.46\frac{W}{S}
\qquad [8.29]
$$

Since the allowable landing distance is specified in the requirements as 2,200 ft, and we have previously estimated that $s_a = 889\ \text{ft}$ and $s_f = 130\ \text{ft}$, the allowable value for $s_g$ is

$$
s_g = 2{,}200 - 889 - 130 = 1{,}181\ \text{ft}
$$

Inserting this value for $s_g$ into Eq. (8.29), we have

$$
1{,}181 = 65.4\sqrt{\frac{W}{S}} + 18.46\frac{W}{S}
\qquad [8.30]
$$

Equation (8.30) is a quadratic equation for $\sqrt{W/S}$. Using the quadratic formula, we obtain

$$
\frac{W}{S} = 41.5\ \text{lb}/\text{ft}^2
\qquad [8.31]
$$