60

PART 1 &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; Preliminary Considerations

the proper simulation of either one or the other—the simulation of either the high Reynolds numbers associated with flight or the proper Mach numbers. This is why most new airplane designs are tested in more than one wind tunnel.

A comment is in order regarding the reference area $S$ in Eqs. (2.3) to (2.5). This is nothing other than just a *reference* area, suitably chosen for the definition of the force and moment coefficients. Beginning students in aerodynamics frequently want to think that $S$ should be the total wetted area of the airplane. (Wetted area is the actual surface area of the material making up the skin of the airplane—it is the total surface area that is in actual contact with, i.e., wetted by, the fluid in which the body is immersed.) Indeed, the wetted surface area is the surface on which the pressure and shear stress distributions are acting; hence it is a meaningful geometric quantity when one is discussing aerodynamic force. However, the wetted surface area is not easily calculated, especially for complex body shapes. In contrast, it is much easier to calculate the *planform* area of a wing, that is, the projected area that we see when we look down on the wing. For this reason, for wings as well as entire airplanes, the *wing planform area* is usually used as $S$ in the definitions of $C_L$, $C_D$, and $C_M$ from Eqs. (2.3) to (2.5). Similarly, if we are considering the lift and drag of a cone, or some other slender, missile like body, then the reference area $S$ in Eqs. (2.3) to (2.5) is frequently taken as the *base area* of the body. The point here is that $S$ in Eqs. (2.3) to (2.5) is simply a reference area that can be arbitrarily specified. This is done primarily for convenience. Whether we take for $S$ the planform area, base area, or any other area germane to a given body shape, it is still a measure of the relative size of different bodies which are geometrically similar. And what is important in the definition of $C_L$, $C_D$, and $C_M$ is to divide out the effect of size via the definitions given by Eqs. (2.3) to (2.5). The moral to this story is as follows: *Whenever you take data for $C_L$, $C_D$, or $C_M$ from the technical literature, make certain that you know what geometric reference area was used for $S$ in the definitions and then use that same defined area when making calculations involving those coefficients.*

### Example 2.2

The Boeing 777 (Fig. 1.2) has a wing planform area of 4605 square feet (ft$^2$). (a) Assuming a takeoff weight of 506,000 lb and a takeoff velocity of 160 mi/h, calculate the lift coefficient at takeoff for standard sea-level conditions. (b) Compare the above result with the lift coefficient for cruise at Mach number 0.83 at 30,000 ft, assuming the same weight.

**Solution**

(a) For steady, level flight, the weight is equal to the lift. Hence, from Eq. (2.3),

$$
C_L=\frac{L}{q_\infty S}=\frac{W}{q_\infty S}
$$

The velocity must be expressed in consistent units. Since 60 mi/h = 88 ft/s (a convenient factor to remember),

$$
V_\infty=160\left(\frac{88}{60}\right)=234.7\ \text{ft/s}
$$