# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

255

stalling velocity. Note again that $W$ and $S$ do not appear separately in Eq. (5.67), but rather in the combination $W/S$. This underscores again the significance of wing loading as a fundamental parameter in airplane performance.

3. Velocity $V_{\text{stall}}$ decreases with increased $(C_L)_{\max}$. This is the saving grace for airplanes with high wing loadings; such aircraft are usually designed with mechanical devices—high-lift devices such as flaps, slats, etc.—to give substantial increases in $(C_L)_{\max}$ on takeoff and landing.

The stall velocity of an airplane is one of its most important performance characteristics. The takeoff and landing speeds are slightly higher than $V_{\text{stall}}$. Everything else being equal, it is advantageous to have a reasonably low value of $V_{\text{stall}}$. From Eq. (5.67), the *aerodynamic parameter* that controls $V_{\text{stall}}$ is $(C_L)_{\max}$. Starting with Otto Lilienthal and the Wright brothers about a century ago, aeronautical engineers have been concerned about the maximum lift coefficient obtainable with a given airfoil or wing. Then, in the late 1920s and early 1930s, as the speeds (and hence wing loadings) increased for new airplane designs, the natural $(C_L)_{\max}$ for a given configuration was no longer sufficient. Artificial means became necessary to increase $(C_L)_{\max}$ for landing and takeoff. This is the purpose of a variety of mechanical high-lift devices, discussed in Section 5.9.3. Before examining high-lift devices, we briefly examine the physical nature and cause of stall.

## 5.9.2 The Nature of Stall—Flow Separation

As shown in Fig. 2.7 and discussed in the related text, stall is caused by flow separation. See Ref. 3 for a discussion of the aerodynamic causes and effects of flow separation. We will only note here that flow separation usually occurs in the face of a strong adverse pressure gradient along the surface, such as downstream of the minimum pressure point on an airfoil at high angle of attack. The fluid elements deep within the aerodynamic boundary layer on the surface have been robbed of much of their original kinetic energy by the dissipative effects of friction, and they simply cannot make their way back uphill against a strong region of increasing pressure (strong adverse pressure gradient). As a consequence, the boundary layer separates from the surface. This changes the whole structure of the flow. In turn, the surface pressure distribution on the body is changed, and the changes are in such a fashion that lift is decreased and pressure drag is increased—hence stall.

Flow separation on a three-dimensional body is a particularly complex phenomenon. Just to underscore this statement, examine Fig. 5.27. Here, the low-speed flow is shown over a straight rectangular wing with an aspect ratio of 3.5 at an angle of attack of $20^\circ$. The photograph in Fig. 5.27a is from Winkelmann and Barlow (Ref. 47); it shows an oil flow pattern over the top surface of the wing. The rather complex three-dimensional flow aspects are self-evident. The drawing in Fig. 5.27b is the corresponding pattern of skin-friction lines on the surface, as conjectured by Peake and Tobak (Ref. 48). The drawing in Fig. 5.27c is the conjectured flow in the symmetry plane, that is, in the cut AA.

The complexity of flow separation makes its prediction on all but the simplest of shapes difficult and uncertain. Even the modern techniques of computational fluid