CHAPTER 7 • The Philosophy of Airplane Design 395

trial designs that later prove not to satisfy one or more of the requirements. Looking at the constraint diagram, the designer can choose to start at a selected design point, indentified by the cross in Fig. 7.6. It makes sense to pick a design point with a relatively low $T_0/W_0$, but which is still in the solution space, so that the aircraft design is not unduly overpowered, hence costing more than necessary.

## 7.3.9 Interim Summary

Figure 7.3 illustrates the seven intellectual pivot points in the conceptual design of an airplane. To actually carry out the conceptual design process, we must visualize these seven pivot points interconnected by a web of detailed considerations. For example, we must

1. Make a selection of the airfoil section.
2. Determine the wing geometry (aspect ratio, sweep angle, taper ratio, twist, incidence angle relative to the fuselage, dihedral, vertical location on the fuselage, wing-tip shape, etc.)
3. Choose the geometry and arrangement of the tail. Would a canard be more useful?
4. Decide what specific power plants are to be used. What are the size, number, and placement of the engines?
5. Decide what high-lift devices will be necessary.

These are just a few elements of the web of details that surrounds and interconnects the seven pivot points listed in Fig. 7.3. Moreover, there is nothing unique about this web of details; each designer or design team spins this web as suits their purposes. The next two chapters spin some simple webs that are illustrative of the design process for a propeller-driven airplane, a jet-propelled subsonic airplane, and a supersonic airplane, respectively. They are intended to be illustrative only; the reader should not attempt to actually construct and fly a flying machine from the designs presented in subsequent chapters. Recall that our purpose in this book is to give insight into the design *philosophy*. It is intended to be studied as a precursor and as a companion to the more detailed design texts exemplified by Refs. 25 and 52 to 54.

So, let us get on with spinning these webs.