274

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

Setting the right-hand side of Eq. (5.101) to zero, we obtain after a few algebraic steps (with $V_\infty$ now representing $V_{\theta_{\max}}$)

$$
V_{\theta_{\max}}^4 + \frac{\eta_{pr}(P/W)(W/S)}{\rho_\infty C_{D,0}} V_{\theta_{\max}} - \frac{4(W/S)^2K}{\rho_\infty^2 C_{D,0}} = 0
$$

[5.102]

This author cannot find any analytical solution to Eq. (5.102), nor can he find any such solution in the existing literature. However, Hale in Ref. 49 has shown that for a typical propeller-driven airplane, the magnitudes of the last two terms in Eq. (5.102) are much larger than the magnitude of the first term, and hence a reasonable approximation can be obtained by dropping the $V_{\theta_{\max}}^4$ term in Eq. (5.102), obtaining for $V_{\theta_{\max}}$ for a propeller-driven airplane,

$$
V_{\theta_{\max}} \approx \frac{4(W/S)K}{\rho_\infty \eta_{pr}(P/W)}
$$

[5.103]

In turn, $V_{\theta_{\max}}$ obtained from Eq. (5.103) can be inserted into Eq. (5.100) to obtain $\theta_{\max}$.

*Caution:* Once again we note that for a given airplane, it is possible for $V_{\theta_{\max}}$ to be less than $V_{stall}$. For such a case, it is not possible for the airplane to achieve the theoretical maximum climb angle.

## Maximum Rate of Climb

Consider the case of a jet-propelled airplane where $T$ is relatively constant with $V_\infty$. Rate of climb is given by Eq. (5.86). Conditions associated with maximum rate of climb can be found by differentiating Eq. (5.86) and setting the derivative equal to zero. Differentiating Eq. (5.86) with respect to $V_\infty$, we have

$$
\frac{d(R/C)}{dV_\infty} = \frac{T}{W} - \frac{3}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 \left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^{-1} C_{D,0} + \frac{W}{S}\frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}
$$

[5.104]

If we set the right-hand side of Eq. (5.104) equal to zero and then divide it by $3/2 \rho_\infty (W/S)^{-1} C_{D,0}$, we obtain

$$
V_\infty^2 - \frac{2(T/W)(W/S)}{3\rho_\infty C_{D,0}} - \frac{4K(W/S)^2}{3\rho_\infty^2 C_{D,0}V_\infty^2} = 0
$$

[5.105]

Recalling from Eq. (5.30) that $(L/D)_{\max} = 1/\sqrt{4KC_{D,0}}$, we see that the last term in Eq. (5.105) can be expressed in terms of $(L/D)_{\max}$. Also, multiplying by $V_\infty^2$, Eq. (5.105) becomes

$$
V_\infty^4 - \frac{2(T/W)(W/S)}{3\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}V_\infty^2 - \frac{(W/S)^2}{3\rho_\infty^2 C_{D,0}^2(L/D)_{\max}^2} = 0
$$

[5.106]

For simplicity, let

$$
Q \equiv \frac{W/S}{3\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}
$$

[5.107]

$$
x \equiv V_\infty^2
$$

[5.108]