Hence, minimum power required is given by

$$
(P_R)_{\min}=\sqrt{\frac{2W^3}{\rho_\infty S}\left(\frac{C_D^2}{C_L^3}\right)_{\min}}
=\sqrt{\frac{2(73,000)^3(8.526\times10^{-3})}{(8.9068\times10^{-4})(950)}}
$$

$$
=2.8\times10^6\ \text{ft}\cdot\text{lb/s}=5{,}091\ \text{hp}
$$

The velocity at which minimum $P_R$ occurs is that for flight at $(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}$; this velocity has already been calculated in Example 5.4 as

$$
V=479.6\ \text{ft/s}
$$

The point of minimum $P_R$ on the power required curve has the coordinates, from the above calculation, of $(P_R, V_\infty)=(5091\ \text{hp}, 479.6\ \text{ft/s})$. From Fig. 5.17, we see that these calculated coordinates agree with the graphical solution for the point of minimum $P_R$.

We note from the results of Example 5.2 that the flight velocity for minimum $T_R$ occurs at $V_{(T_R)\min}=531.2$ ft/s, which is greater than the velocity of 479.6 ft/s obtained above for minimum $P_R$. For the sake of comparison, the value of $V_{(T_R)\min}$ is shown in Fig. 5.17. This again emphasizes that the point of minimum power required occurs at a lower flight velocity than that for minimum thrust required.

## 5.7 POWER AVAILABLE AND MAXIMUM VELOCITY

By definition, the power available, denoted by $P_A$, is the power provided by the power plant of the airplane. As discussed in Section 3.2, the power available is given by Eq. (3.3), where

$$
P_A=T_A V_\infty
\tag{5.58}
$$

The maximum power available compared with the power required allows the calculation of the maximum velocity of the airplane. In this sense it is essentially an alternative to the method based on thrust considerations discussed in Section 5.5. We will examine the calculation of $V_{\max}$ by means of power considerations in Section 5.7.4. However, there are some aspects of airplane performance, rate of climb, for example, that depend more fundamentally on power than on thrust. Hence, the consideration of $P_A$ in this section and $P_R$ in the previous section is important in its own right.

### 5.7.1 Propeller-Driven Aircraft

Propellers are driven by reciprocating piston engines or by gas turbines (turboprop). The engines in both these cases are rated in terms of *power* (not thrust, as in the case of jet engines). Hence, for propeller-driven airplanes, *power available* is much more germane than thrust available, as discussed in Section 5.5.1.