CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight 271

Alternately, we note that by dividing Eq. (5.86) by $V_\infty$, we obtain

$$
\sin \theta = \frac{T}{W} - \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 \left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^{-1} C_{D,0} - \frac{W}{S}\frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}
\qquad [5.88]
$$

Equation (5.86), with its counterpart Eq. (5.88), contains some useful information about climb performance and the design parameters of an airplane that dictate climb performance. In particular:

1. Equation (5.86) is simply an elaborate form of Eq. (5.78), repeated here in a slightly different form.

$$
V_\infty \sin \theta = V_\infty \frac{T - D}{W}
\qquad [5.89]
$$

Clearly, from Eq. (5.89), more thrust, less drag, and smaller weight all work to increase the rate of climb. Equation (5.86) spells out more clearly the design parameters. For example, increasing the thrust-to-weight ratio increases $R/C$. The last two terms in Eq. (5.86) represent the zero-lift drag and the drag due to lift, respectively, both divided by the weight. A decrease in $C_{D,0}$ or $K$, or in both, increases $R/C$.

2. The effect of increasing altitude usually is to decrease $R/C$. All three terms in Eq. (5.86) are sensitive to altitude through $\rho_\infty$. The effect of altitude on $T$ depends on the type of power plant used. However, for turbojets, turbofans, and unsupercharged piston engines with propellers, thrust at a given $V_\infty$ decreases with altitude (as discussed in Section 5.5 and in Chapter 3). For an airplane with any reasonable climb capacity, the dominant term in Eq. (5.86) is $T/W$; hence when $T/W$ decreases with increasing altitude, $R/C$ also decreases. However, for supercharged piston engines with variable-pitch, constant-speed propellers, the story may be different. Up to the critical altitude of the supercharged engine, power output is reasonably constant; hence at a given $V_\infty$, the thrust output of the propeller can be maintained reasonably constant with increasing altitude by increasing the propeller pitch angle. The consequences of this on the altitude variation of $R/C$ at a given $V_\infty$ depend on how drag varies with altitude at the same $V_\infty$. The drag is given by the last two terms in Eq. (5.86). The middle term shows that at a given $V_\infty$ the zero-lift drag decreases with increasing altitude, whereas the last term shows that at a given $V_\infty$ the drag due to lift increases with increasing altitude. If $V_\infty$ is low, the drag due to lift dominates the total drag, and hence in this low-velocity range, drag increases with altitude at a given $V_\infty$. If $V_\infty$ is high, the zero-lift drag dominates the total drag, and hence in this high-velocity range, drag decreases with altitude at a given $V_\infty$. Hence, in this high-velocity range, for an airplane with a supercharged piston engine, the $R/C$ for a given $V_\infty$ theoretically can increase with altitude. We repeat again that, in general, the dominant term in Eq. (5.86) is $T/W$, and the effect of altitude on $T/W$ dominates the altitude variation of $R/C$.

3. From Eq. (5.86), wing loading also affects $R/C$. At a given arbitrary $V_\infty$, this effect is a mixed bag. Note from the drag terms in Eq. (5.86) that increasing $W/S$ decreases the zero-lift drag and increases the drag due to lift. Hence, in the