244

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

In terms of horsepower, where 550 ft$\cdot$lb/s = 1 hp,

$$
P_A = \frac{15,371}{550} V_\infty = 27.95V_\infty \qquad \text{hp}
$$

This linear relation for $P_A$ is shown as the straight line in Fig. 5.20. The high-speed intersection of the $(P_A)_{\max}$ and $P_R$ curves occurs at a velocity of 1,535 ft/s. This is the maximum velocity attainable in straight and level flight at 30,000 ft, or

$$
V_{\max} = 1,535 \text{ ft/s}
$$

This graphical solution for $V_{\max}$ using considerations of power required and power available gives the same result as that calculated from the consideration of thrust required and thrust available in Example 5.6, where the calculated value was shown to be $V_{\max} = 1,534.6$ ft/s.

We emphasize again that the determination of $V_{\max}$ by means of power considerations (as carried out here) is simply an alternative to using the thrust considerations described earlier. Also, recall again that the value $V_{\max} = 1,535$ ft/s at an altitude of 30,000 ft is unrealistically high because we have not included the transonic drag divergence effects in the drag polar.

## 5.8 EFFECT OF DRAG DIVERGENCE ON MAXIMUM VELOCITY

The purpose of the preceding sections has been to discuss the basic aspects of thrust required, thrust available, power required, and power available, and to show how these considerations can be used to calculate the maximum velocity of the airplane. In the examples used to illustrate these aspects, a drag polar was used that did not account for the large drag rise near Mach 1; rather, a conventional, subsonic drag polar was used for simplicity, because the major intent was to highlight the fundamental techniques. In reality, the drag polar used in the previous examples applies only below the drag divergence Mach number. In this section, we examine the effect of including the large transonic drag rise on our estimation of maximum velocity for the airplane.

### Example 5.10

Consider the same Gulfstream IV highlighted in previous examples in this chapter. At 30,000 ft, estimate the magnitude of the transonic drag rise. Using this estimate, calculate the maximum velocity of the airplane at an altitude of 30,000 ft. Compare with the result obtained in Examples 5.6 and 5.9, where the drag-divergence effect was not included.

**Solution**

The flight Mach number at which the large transonic drag rise begins to occur is the drag-divergence Mach number $M_{DD}$ discussed in Chapter 2. The precise value of $M_{DD}$ for the Gulfstream IV is not readily available in the popular literature; for example, it is not quoted in Ref. 36. However, a reasonable value based on typical subsonic transports is 0.82. Hence, for this example, we assume that $M_{DD} = 0.82$.

To construct the slope of the drag curve in the drag-divergence region, we turn to Fig. 5.3 for guidance. Figure 5.3 shows actual drag-divergence data, albeit for a different airplane. Since we do not have the actual drag-divergence data for the Gulfstream IV, we assume that