CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight 309

is found as follows.

$$
\frac{T_R}{V_\infty}=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty SC_D=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty \sqrt{\frac{2W}{\rho_\infty SC_L}}\,SC_D=\left(\frac{\rho_\infty WS}{2}\right)^{1/2}\frac{C_D}{C_L^{1/2}}
\qquad [5.176]
$$

From Eq. (5.176), $T_R/V_\infty$ is a minimum when $C_D/C_L^{1/2}$ is a minimum, or when $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ is a maximum. Thus, at point 4, the flight conditions correspond to flight at $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$.

In addition, recall from Section 5.13.3 that Carson’s speed for a propeller-driven airplane is given as the flight velocity that corresponds to a minimum value of $T/V_\infty$. Hence, point 4 in Fig. 5.47b also corresponds to Carson’s speed.

## 5.15.3 Graphical Summary

Study Fig. 5.47 carefully. It is an all-inclusive graphical construction that illustrates the various conditions for maximum range and endurance for propeller-driven and jet-propelled aircraft. In particular, note the flight velocities for these conditions, that is, the three velocities corresponding to points 1, 2 and 3, and 4. Maximum endurance for a propeller-driven airplane occurs at the lowest of these velocities (point 1). The velocity for maximum range for a propeller-driven airplane, and for maximum endurance for a jet airplane, is higher (points 2 and 3). The velocity for maximum range for a jet airplane (point 4) is the highest of the three. Denoting the three velocities by $V_1$, $V_2$, and $V_3$, the results of Section 5.4.1 show that, from Eq. (5.42)

$$
V_1=0.76V_2=0.76V_3
$$

and from Eq. (5.46)

$$
V_4=1.32V_2
$$

Also, note that the construction of a line through the origin tangent to either the $P_R$ curve or the $T_R$ curve yields useful information. This construction allows a simple method for dealing with the effect of wind, as discussed below.

## 5.15.4 The Effect of Wind

Most preliminary performance analyses assume that the airplane is flying through a stationary atmosphere, that is, there are no prevailing winds in the atmosphere. This has been the assumption underlying all our performance analyses in this chapter. Although not important for such a preliminary analysis, it is worthwhile to at least ask the question: How is endurance affected by a headwind or a tailwind? Similarly, how is range affected? Let us examine the answers to these questions.

First, we emphasize that the aerodynamic properties of the airplane depend on the velocity of the air *relative to the airplane* $V_\infty$. The aerodynamics does not “care”