418

PART 3 • Airplane Design

To summarize the results from this section, the three constraints on power required for our airplane design have led to the following:

Takeoff $\qquad P \geq 118.8\ \text{hp}$

Rate of climb $\qquad P \geq 362.5\ \text{hp}$

Maximum velocity $\qquad P \geq 303.1\ \text{hp}$

Clearly, the specification of the maximum rate of climb at sea level of 1,000 ft/min is the determining factor of the required power from the engine. For our airplane design, the engine should be capable of producing a maximum power of 362.5 hp or greater.

We can couch this result in terms of the more relevant performance parameters $T/W$ or $P/W$. When these parameters are quoted for a given airplane, the weight is usually taken as the gross takeoff weight $W_0$. Hence, for our design

$$
\text{Power-to-weight ratio}=\frac{362.5\ \text{hp}}{5,158\ \text{lb}}=0.07\ \text{hp/lb}
$$

For a propeller-driven airplane, the power-to-weight ratio is more relevant than the thrust-to-weight ratio, which makes more sense to quote for jet airplanes. For a reciprocating engine/propeller-driven airplane, the shaft power is essentially constant with velocity, whereas the thrust decreases with velocity, as discussed in Chapter 3. Hence, for a reciprocating engine/propeller-driven airplane, to quote the power-to-weight ratio makes more sense. In the aeronautical literature, historically the *power loading*, which is the reciprocal of the power-to-weight ratio, is frequently given.

$$
\text{Power loading} \equiv \frac{W}{P}
$$

The definition of the power loading is semantically analogous to that for the wing loading $W/S$. The wing loading is the weight divided by wing area; the power loading is the weight divided by the power. For our airplane, we have estimated that

$$
\text{Power loading}\ \frac{W}{P}=\frac{1}{0.07}=14.3\ \text{lb/hp}
$$

[We note that Raymer (Ref. 25) quotes a typical value of 14 lb/hp for general aviation single-engine airplanes—so our estimation appears to be very reasonable.]

There is something important that is implicit in our discussion of the engine characteristics. Although the engine is sized at 362.5 hp to meet the rate-of-climb specification at sea level, it must also produce 303.1 hp at 20,000 ft to achieve the specified maximum velocity. Since the power of a conventional reciprocating engine is proportional to the air density [see Eq. (3.11)], such a conventional engine sized at 362.5 hp at sea level will produce only 193 hp at 20,000 ft—clearly unacceptable for meeting our specifications. Hence, the engine for our airplane must be *supercharged* to maintain sea-level power to an altitude of 20,000 ft.