542

PART 3 • Airplane Design

## 9.5 SUMMARY

Supersonic airplane design is different from subsonic airplane design. Supersonic airplanes are two airplanes in one; they are optimized for their supersonic mission, but they must have satisfactory subsonic characteristics to allow safe and reasonable flight at low speeds. Because the physics of supersonic flow is so different from the physics of subsonic flow, every supersonic airplane design is a careful compromise between what is good for supersonic flight and what is good for subsonic flight.

Some of the characteristics and challenges that pertain to the design of supersonic airplanes are as follows:

1. Shock waves, which occur at transonic and supersonic speeds, cause a large increase in drag—supersonic wave drag. Supersonic airplanes are designed with slender bodies and thin wings with sharp leading edges to reduce wave drag. These same features are not good for subsonic flow and can cause flow separation and hence large pressure drag at subsonic speeds.

2. The center of pressure (hence the aerodynamic center) for an airplane shifts dramatically rearward when it accelerates from subsonic to supersonic flight. This creates a major design challenge for proper stability and control characteristics of the airplane.

3. Attention must be paid to *where* the shock waves are on the airplane and where shocks may be impinging on the airplane's surface. Shock impingement can cause flow separation and local spots of intense aerodynamic heating.

4. Airframe-propulsion integration becomes more of a design challenge, and a necessity, as the design Mach number of supersonic airplanes increases.

5. Aerodynamic heating, usually negligible for subsonic airplane design, becomes one of the important design considerations for supersonic airplanes. Aerodynamic heating increases approximately as the cube of the velocity (see, e.g., chapter 8 of Ref. 3). Aerodynamic heating was enough of a problem in the design of the Mach 3+ YF-12A/SR-71 Blackbird that it dictated the material the airplane is made of (titanium) and its exterior color (dark blue-black to increase surface cooling by thermal radiation).

These are only some of the items that distinguish supersonic airplane design from that of subsonic airplanes. However, the overall design *philosophy* as described in Chapter 7 is essentially the same, whether the airplane is intended to be subsonic or supersonic. This chapter has been devoted exclusively to design case histories of three quite different supersonic airplanes in order to illustrate this point.