# 8.5 SUMMARY OF THE CRITICAL PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS

We have now completed pivot point 3 in Fig. 7.3, namely, the first estimate of the critical performance parameters from airplane design. They are summarized as follows:

Maximum lift coefficient  
$(C_L)_{\max} = 2.34$

Maximum lift-to-drag ratio  
$$\left(\frac{L}{D}\right)_{\max} = 14$$

Wing loading  
$$\frac{W}{S} = 29.3 \ \text{lb/ft}^2$$

Power loading  
$$\frac{W}{P} = 14.3 \ \text{lb/hp}$$

In the process of estimating these performance parameters, we have found other characteristics of our airplane:

Takeoff gross weight  
$W_0 = 5,158 \ \text{lb}$

Fuel weight  
$W_f = 820 \ \text{lb}$

Fuel tank capacity  
145.4 gal

Wing area  
$S = 176 \ \text{ft}^2$

High-lift device  
Single-slotted trailing-edge flaps

Zero-lift drag coefficient  
$C_{D,0} = 0.017$

Drag-due-to-lift coefficient  
$K = 0.075$

Aspect ratio  
$AR = 7.07$

Propeller efficiency  
0.8

Engine power, supercharged to 20,000 ft  
362.5 hp

We are now ready to draw a picture of our airplane design, that is, to construct a configuration layout. This is the subject of the next section.

# 8.6 CONFIGURATION LAYOUT

We now move to pivot point 4 in Fig. 7.3—the configuration layout. Based on the information we have calculated so far in this chapter, we are ready to draw a picture, with dimensions, of our airplane. Even though the data summarized in Section 8.5 clearly define a certain type of airplane, there are still an infinite number of different sizes and shapes that could satisfy these data. There are no specific laws or rules that