In contrast to a propeller, a gas-turbine jet engine produces its thrust by giving a comparably smaller mass of air a much larger increase in velocity. Reflecting on Eq. (3.1), we see that $\dot{m}$ may be smaller than that for a propeller, but $V_j - V_\infty$ is much larger. Hence, jet engines can produce enough thrust to propel airplanes to transonic and supersonic flight velocities. However, because $V_j$ is much larger than $V_\infty$, from Eq. (3.8) the propulsive efficiency of a jet engine will be less than that for a propeller.

Because of the tradeoffs discussed above, in modern aeronautics we see low-speed airplanes powered by the reciprocating engine/propeller combination, because of the increased propulsive efficiency, and we see high-speed airplanes powered by jet engines, because they can produce ample thrust to propel aircraft to transonic and supersonic speeds. We also see the reason for a turbofan engine—a large multiblade fan driven by a turbojet core—which is designed to generate the thrust of a jet engine but with an efficiency that is more reflective of propellers. An even more direct combination is a propeller driven by a gas-turbine engine—the turboprop—which has a nice niche with airplanes in the 300 to 400 mi/h range.

In summary, the purpose of this section has been to give you an overall understanding of the fundamental tradeoffs associated with different flight propulsion devices. This understanding is helpful for studies of airplane performance and discussions about airplane design. In the subsequent sections, we briefly examine those aspects of each class of propulsive device which are directly relevant to our considerations of airplane performance and design.

## 3.3 THE RECIPROCATING ENGINE/PROPELLER COMBINATION

The basic operation of a four-stroke spark-ignition engine is illustrated in Fig. 3.3. Illustrated here is a piston-cylinder arrangement, where the translating, up-and-down movement of the piston is converted to rotary motion of the crankshaft via a connecting rod. On the intake stroke (Fig. 3.3a), the intake valve is open, the piston moves down, and fresh fuel-air mixture is sucked into the cylinder. During the compression stroke (Fig. 3.3b), the valves are closed, the piston moves up, and the gas in the cylinder is compressed to a higher pressure and temperature. Combustion is initiated approximately at the top of the compression stroke; as a first approximation, the combustion is fairly rapid, and is relatively complete before the piston has a chance to move very far. Hence, the combustion is assumed to take place at constant volume. During combustion, the pressure increases markedly. This high pressure on the face of the piston drives the piston down on the power stroke (Fig. 3.3c). This is the main source of power from the engine. Finally, the exhaust valve opens, and the piston moves up on the exhaust stroke, pushing most of the burned fuel-air mixture out of the cylinder. Then the four-stroke cycle is repeated. This four-stroke internal combustion engine concept has been in existence for more than a century; it was developed by Nikolaus Otto in Germany in 1876 and patented in 1877. (Strangely enough, although Otto worked in Germany, his 1877 patent was taken out in the