CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

359

$$
ds=\frac{ds}{dt}\,dt=V_\infty\,dt
$$

or

$$
\int_0^{s_g} ds=\int_0^{t_{\mathrm{LO}}} V_\infty\,dt
$$

or

$$
s_g=\int_0^{t_{\mathrm{LO}}} V_\infty\,dt
\tag{6.80}
$$

The integral in Eq. (6.80) is evaluated numerically, using the tabulated values of $V_\infty$ versus $t$ obtained from the numerical solution of Eq. (6.71).

## Approximate Analysis of Ground Roll

The numerical solution of the governing equation of motion described above does not readily identify the governing design parameters that determine takeoff performance. Let us extract these parameters from an approximate analysis of ground roll as follows.

Recalling that $s$ is the distance along the ground, we can write

$$
ds=\frac{ds}{dt}\,dt=V_\infty\,dt=V_\infty\frac{dt}{dV_\infty}\,dV_\infty
$$

or

$$
ds=\frac{V_\infty\,dV_\infty}{dV_\infty/dt}=\frac{d(V_\infty^2)}{2(dV_\infty/dt)}
\tag{6.81}
$$

Let us now construct an appropriate expression for $dV_\infty/dt$ to be inserted into Eq. (6.81). Returning to Eq. (6.71), we have

$$
\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}=\frac{1}{m}[T-D-\mu_r(W-L)]
\tag{6.82}
$$

Substituting Eqs. (6.75) and (6.79) into Eq. (6.82), and noting that $m=W/g$, we have

$$
\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}=\frac{g}{W}\left[T-\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2SC_D-\mu_r\left(W-\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2SC_L\right)\right]
$$

or

$$
\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}=g\left[\frac{T}{W}-\mu_r-\frac{\rho_\infty}{2(W/S)}(C_D-\mu_rC_L)V_\infty^2\right]
\tag{6.83}
$$

In Eq. (6.83), $C_D$ is given by Eq. (6.78). Hence, recalling that $k_3\equiv 1/(\pi eAR)$, we have

$$
\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}=g\left\{\frac{T}{W}-\mu_r-\frac{\rho_\infty}{2(W/S)}\left[C_{D,0}+\Delta C_{D,0}+\left(k_1+\frac{G}{\pi eAR}\right)C_L^2-\mu_rC_L\right]V_\infty^2\right\}
\tag{6.84}
$$