# chapter

# 2

# Aerodynamics of the Airplane:  
# The Drag Polar

The results which we reach by practical flying experiments will depend most of all upon the shapes which we give to the wings used in experimenting. Therefore, there is probably no more important subject in the technics of flying than that which refers to wing formation.

Otto Lilienthal, Berlin, 1896

## 2.1 INTRODUCTION

Without aerodynamics, airplanes could not fly, birds could not get off the ground, and windmills would never work. Thus, in considering the performance and design of airplanes, it is no surprise that aerodynamics is a vital aspect. That is why this chapter is devoted exclusively to aerodynamics. Our purpose here is not to give a short course in aerodynamics; rather, only those aspects of aerodynamics necessary for our subsequent consideration of airplane performance and design are reviewed and discussed. Moreover, an understanding of what constitutes “good aerodynamics” is central to the design of good airplanes. In the following sections we discuss the lift and drag of various components of the airplane, as well as the overall lift and drag of the complete vehicle. We emphasize the philosophy that good aerodynamics is primarily derived from *low drag*; it is generally not hard to design a surface to give the requisite amount of lift, and the challenge is to obtain this lift with as small a drag as possible. A barn door at the angle of attack will produce a lot of lift, but it also produces a lot of drag—this is why we do not fly around on barn doors.

51