carried out the design philosophy associated with pivot point 5 in Fig. 7.3. Based on the configuration layout, we have obtained a better weight estimate. Note that our new ratio of empty to gross weight is $W_e/W_0 = 0.56$. This is less than the value of 0.62 chosen in Section 8.3.1 based on the historical data shown in Fig. 8.2; the value of $W_e/W_0 = 0.56$ falls within the low side of the scatter of data points for airplanes with gross weights less than 10,000 lb in Fig. 8.1.

We now proceed to the next pivot point in Fig. 7.3, namely, a performance analysis using the better weight estimate obtained in the present section.

## 8.8 PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS

The estimate of $W_0 = 4{,}100$ lb obtained in Section 8.7 is lower than the initial estimate of $W_0 = 5{,}158$ lb used for our design calculations to this point. This is an encouraging trend, because the airplane shown in the configuration layout in Fig. 8.27 will have better performance with the lower $W_0$ than we have estimated so far. The function of pivot point 6 in Fig. 7.3 is to find out whether the design existing at pivot point 4 will meet or exceed the requirements. This is the subject of this section. Here we will carry out a performance analysis of the airplane shown in Fig. 8.27, using the improved weight estimates obtained from pivot point 5. We will use the performance analysis techniques discussed in Chapters 5 and 6.

The updated performance parameters are

Wing loading

$$
\frac{W}{S}=\frac{4{,}100}{176}=23.3\ \text{lb/ft}^2
$$

Power loading

$$
\frac{W}{P}=\frac{4{,}100}{360}=11.39\ \text{lb/hp}
$$

The aerodynamic coefficients have not been changed, by choice. In a more sophisticated design experience, at this stage in the design process better estimates for $C_{D,0}$, $K$, and $(C_L)_{\max}$ would be made, using the configuration layout in Fig. 8.27. For simplicity, we choose not to do so here. Hence, we still assume

$$
C_{D,0}=0.017
$$

$$
K=0.075
$$

$$
(C_L)_{\max}=2.34
$$

$$
\left(\frac{L}{D}\right)_{\max}=14
$$

### 8.8.1 Power Required and Power Available Curves

Since cruise is set at 20,000 ft, the power required and power available are calculated for an altitude of 20,000 ft. Figure 8.29 gives the variation of drag with velocity, and Fig. 8.30 gives the variation of horsepower required and horsepower available