CHAPTER 4 • The Equations of Motion 197

flipping back and forth between Figs. 4.3 and 4.5, until you feel comfortable with the sketch shown in Fig. 4.5.

Consider the force components in Fig. 4.5 that are perpendicular to the flight path at the instantaneous location of the center of gravity. The sum of these forces, denoted by $F_2$, is

$$
F_2 = L \sin \phi + T \sin \epsilon \sin \phi
$$

The instantaneous radial acceleration along the curvilinear path in Fig. 4.5 is

$$
a_2 = \frac{(V_\infty \cos \theta)^2}{r_2}
$$

From Newton's second law taken along the direction perpendicular to the flight path in the horizontal plane shown in Fig. 4.5, we have

$$
m \frac{(V_\infty \cos \theta)^2}{r_2} = L \sin \phi + T \sin \epsilon \sin \phi
$$

[4.7]

Equations (4.5) to (4.7) are three equations which describe the translational motion of an airplane through three-dimensional space over a flat earth. They are called the *equations of motion* for the airplane. (There are three additional equations of motion that describe the rotational motion of the airplane about its axes; however, we are not concerned with the rotational motion here. Also, we have assumed no yaw of the airplane; i.e., the free-stream velocity vector has been treated as always parallel to the symmetry plane of the aircraft.) These equations of motion are simply statements of Newton's second law.

## 4.4 SUMMARY AND COMMENTS

In this short chapter we have discussed the four forces of flight—lift, drag, thrust, and weight. The translational motion of the airplane—its flight path and the instantaneous velocities and accelerations—is determined by these forces. The equations which relate the forces to the motion are obtained from Newton's second law. The resulting equations are called the *equations of motion* for the airplane. For the assumption of a flat earth and no yaw, the equations of motion are given by Eqs. (4.5) to (4.7).

Our discussion of airplane performance for the remainder of Part 2 of this book is based on various applications of the equations of motion. We will find that, to answer some questions about the performance of an airplane, Eqs. (4.5) to (4.7) can be greatly simplified. However, to address other aspects of performance, Eqs. (4.5) to (4.7) need to be used in almost their full form. In any event, with the equations of motion in our mind, we are now ready to examine these performance questions.