180  PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

As noted above, the thrust generated by the turboprop is the sum of the propeller thrust $T_p$ and the jet thrust $T_j$. For the engine in flight at velocity $V_\infty$, the power available from the turboprop is

$$
P_A = (T_p + T_j)V_\infty
$$

[3.27]

Because of its closeness to the reciprocating engine/propeller mechanism, where the rating of engine performance is in terms of power rather than thrust, the performance of a turboprop is frequently measured in terms of power. The main business end of a turboprop is the shaft coming from the engine to which the propeller is attached via some type of gearbox mechanism. Hence the *shaft power* $P_s$ coming from the engine is a meaningful quantity. Because of losses associated with the propeller as described in Section 3.3.2, the power obtained from the propeller/shaft combination is $\eta_{pr}P_s$. Hence, the net power available, which includes the jet thrust, is

$$
P_A = \eta_{pr}P_s + T_jV_\infty
$$

[3.28]

Sometimes manufacturers rate their turboprops in terms of the *equivalent shaft power* $P_{es}$ which is an overall power rating that *includes* the effect of the jet thrust. Here, we *imagine that all the power* from the engine is being delivered through the shaft (although we know that a part of it—about 5%—is really due to jet thrust). The equivalent shaft power is defined to be analogous to the shaft power coming from a reciprocating engine. Analogous to Eq. (3.13), $P_{es}$ is *defined* by

$$
P_A = \eta_{pr}P_{es}
$$

[3.29]

Combining Eqs. (3.28) and (3.29), we have

$$
\eta_{pr}P_{es} = \eta_{pr}P_s + T_jV_\infty
$$

[3.30]

Solving Eq. (3.30) for $P_{es}$, we obtain

$$
P_{es} = P_s + \frac{T_jV_\infty}{\eta_{pr}}
$$

[3.31]

Equation (3.31) shows how the defined equivalent shaft power is related to the actual shaft power $P_s$ and the jet thrust $T_j$.

Turboprop engines clearly have an ambivalence—is thrust or power more germane? There is no definitive answer to this question, nor should there be. Once you become comfortable with Eqs. (3.27) to (3.31), you can easily accept this ambivalence. Of course, this ambivalence carries over to the definition of specific fuel consumption for a turboprop. Let $\dot{w}_{fuel}$ be the weight flow rate of the fuel (say, in pounds per second, or newtons per second). Also let $T$ be the total thrust from the turboprop, $T = T_p + T_j$. Then the thrust specific fuel consumption can be defined as

$$
c_t = \frac{\dot{w}_{fuel}}{T}
$$

[3.32]