150

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

Substituting Eqs. (3.3) and (3.4) into Eq. (3.5), we have

$$
\eta_p = \frac{T V_\infty}{T V_\infty + \frac{1}{2}\dot{m}(V_j - V_\infty)^2}
$$

[3.6]

Substituting the thrust equation, Eq. (3.1), into Eq. (3.6), we have

$$
\eta_p = \frac{\dot{m}(V_j - V_\infty)V_\infty}{\dot{m}(V_j - V_\infty)V_\infty + \frac{1}{2}\dot{m}(V_j - V_\infty)^2}
$$

[3.7]

By dividing numerator and denominator by $\dot{m}(V_j - V_\infty)V_\infty$, Eq. (3.7) becomes

$$
\eta_p = \frac{1}{1 + \frac{1}{2}(V_j - V_\infty)/V_\infty} = \frac{1}{\frac{1}{2}(1 + V_j/V_\infty)}
$$

or

$$
\eta_p = \frac{2}{1 + V_j/V_\infty}
$$

[3.8]

The nature of the tradeoff between thrust and efficiency is now clearly seen by examining Eq. (3.1) with one eye and Eq. (3.8) with the other eye. From Eq. (3.8), maximum (100%) propulsive efficiency is obtained when $V_j = V_\infty$; for this case, $\eta_p = 1$. This makes sense. In this case, when the propulsion device hurtles through the laboratory at velocity $V_\infty$ into the stationary air ahead of it, and the air is exhausted from the device with a velocity $V_j$ relative to the device which is equal to the velocity of the device itself ($V_j = V_\infty$), then relative to the laboratory, the air simply appears to plop out of the back end of the device with no velocity. In other words, since the air behind the device is not moving in the laboratory, there is no wasted kinetic energy. On the other hand, if $V_j = V_\infty$, Eq. (3.1) shows that $T = 0$. Here is the compromise; we can achieve a maximum propulsive efficiency of 100%, but with no thrust—a self-defeating situation.

In this compromise, we can find the reasons for the existence of the various propulsion devices listed in Section 3.1. A propeller, with its relatively large diameter, processes a large mass of air, but gives the air only a small increase in velocity. In light of Eq. (3.1), a propeller produces thrust by means of a large $\dot{m}$ with a small $V_j - V_\infty$, and therefore in light of Eq. (3.8), $\eta_p$ is high. The propeller is inherently the most efficient of the common propulsive devices. However, the thrust of a propeller is limited by the propeller tip speed; if the tip speed is near or greater than the speed of sound, shock waves will form on the propeller. This greatly increases the drag on the propeller, which increases the torque on the reciprocating engine, which reduces the rotational speed (rpm) of the engine, which reduces the power obtained from the engine itself, and which is manifested in a dramatic reduction of thrust. In addition, the shock waves reduce the lift coefficient of the affected airfoil sections making up the propeller, which further decreases thrust. The net effect is that, at high speeds, a propeller becomes ineffective as a good thrust-producing device. This is why there are no propeller-driven transonic or supersonic airplanes.