# CHAPTER 9 • Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

517

Another consideration for jet airplane design is the integration of the airframe with the engines—the problem of *airframe-propulsion integration*. For conventional propeller-driven airplanes, airframe-propulsion integration is not a driving aspect of airplane design. The propeller wash from tractor-configuration propellers flowing downstream over the fuselage and/or wings is a consideration in the calculation of skin friction over these surfaces, but it is hardly a driver that determines the location, shape, and orientation of the propellers relative to the airframe; nor is the design of the airframe shape influenced by the propellers. To some extent, the location of engine nacelles on the wing—how far forward of the leading edge the front of the nacelle is located, and how centered the nacelle is in the vertical direction relative to the airfoil section—has an influence on the nacelle drag, as studied in the 1930s. However, for the design of propeller-driven airplanes, the engines and the airframe are usually treated as distinct entities; there is little reason to be concerned with airframe-propulsion integration in the true sense of that term.

For jet airplanes, airframe-propulsion integration becomes a more serious design consideration, mildly important for subsonic jets, important for supersonic jets, and essential for future hypersonic airplanes. Since this section deals with subsonic jets, we will limit our comments here to such airplanes.

For subsonic jet airplanes, the engine and airframe can still be treated as somewhat distinct entities. However, the following aspects should be considered in the conceptual design process.

If the jet engine is buried inside the fuselage, care should be taken to provide good-quality flow into the inlet. Good-quality flow means flow that has relatively uniform properties entering the inlet with as high a total pressure as possible. Boundary layer flow by this standard is low-quality flow; the velocity profiles are highly nonuniform, and the viscous shear stresses decrease the total pressure. Hence it is good practice not to place the inlet at a location where it will ingest a sizable boundary layer coming from another part of the airplane. Generally, two types of inlet configurations have been used for fuselage design. One is the simple nose inlet, such as used on the Republic F-84, shown in Fig. 9.28. Here the inlet is as far forward as it can be. It essentially ingests the free-stream flow, which is of high quality. However, this flow must pass through a relatively long duct through the fuselage to get to the engine mounted at the center rear of the airplane, with consequent frictional losses and hence losses in total pressure. To decrease these internal flow losses, the duct to the engine can be made shorter by putting the inlets farther back on the fuselage, one on each side of the airplane. Side-mounted inlets were used for the Lockheed F-80, the first U.S. fully operational jet fighter, shown in Fig. 9.29. Although such side-mounted inlets decrease the internal duct length to the engine, the boundary layer that builds up along the fuselage, if ingested by the inlet, promotes poor-quality flow into the engine duct. However, this can be mitigated by mounting the inlet lip slightly away from the fuselage surface so that the boundary layer passes between the fuselage and the inlet. A disadvantage of side inlets that provide flow to a single engine is that the flow path is split between the two inlets, and pressure instabilities may arise that cause the engine to stall. There are other considerations associated with the internal ducts, such as their weight and the volume they occupy inside the fuselage. So the