# CHAPTER 9 • Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

497

of the Boeing 707-320B is 6,240 mi. The configuration of the Boeing 707 set a model for many subsequent jet transport designs; in contrast, the configuration of the Comet had virtually no impact on future design.

With the success of the B-47, and then later with the larger B-52, Boeing management knew it was in an advantageous position to produce the first jet airliner in the United States. However, the decision to go ahead with such a project did not come easily. The airlines were cautious, waiting to see how successful the Comet might be. Boeing felt that any initial orders for a new commercial jet transport would not be large enough to cover the development and tooling costs. This led to the idea for a military version to be used as a jet tanker for in-flight refueling, almost identical to the civil transport design. In this fashion, business from the Air Force would make up the start-up losses for the development of the airplane. But the Air Force dragged its heels on such an idea. Nevertheless, on April 22, 1952—the same year that the British Comet first went into airline service—Boeing management authorized the building of a prototype jet airliner. With that decision, the fortune and future destiny of Boeing Company were forever changed. A company that had produced mainly military airplanes for most of its existence was to become the world’s leading manufacturer of civil jet transports in the last half of the twentieth century.

But in 1952 nobody knew this. The decision in 1952 was a bold one; the prototype jet transport was to be privately financed. The estimated cost of the prototype was $16 million. However, Boeing decided to use some of its independent research and development (IRD) funds, which came from prorated allotments taken from military contracts. These IRD funds were the government’s way of providing some discretionary funding to companies to help them carry out their own research and advanced development. So the government would indirectly end up paying most of the cost of the prototype anyway; the direct cost to Boeing was estimated to be only $3 million. Boeing labeled the prototype with a company internal designation of 367-80; the airplane was quickly to be known as the “Dash-80.”

The Dash-80 was powered by four Pratt & Whitney J-57 turbojet engines, which had proved to be very reliable on the B-52 bomber. The civil version of the J-57 was designated the JT3C; each engine produced 10,000 lb of thrust. Although the Dash-80 was an evolutionary derivative of the B-47, there were still some major design challenges. For one, the use of a tricycle landing gear in conjunction with a swept wing posed a problem: How would the main gear retract and be stowed in the swept wing? The structural design of the swept wing involved internal spars that were also swept, hence making it geometrically difficult for the main landing gear, which retracted in a line at right angles to the plane of symmetry, to be stowed in a convenient vacant space in the wing. The Boeing designers solved this problem by placing the main gear closer to the plane of symmetry and having the main gear retract into the bottom of the fuselage, as shown in Fig. 9.6.

Another challenge was flight control. A well-known aerodynamic characteristic of swept-back wings is that the backward sweep induces a spanwise component of flow over the wing which is toward the wing tip. Hence, the flow in the tip region tends to separate before that over other parts of the wing, with a consequent loss of control from ailerons placed near the tip. This problem had been noticed in both