302

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

By using Eq. (5.159), Carson's figure of merit becomes

$$
\frac{|dW_f|}{V_\infty}=\frac{T}{V_\infty}c\,ds
\qquad [5.160]
$$

Clearly, this figure of merit is minimized when $T/V_\infty$ is a minimum. We examine the aerodynamic condition that holds when $T/V_\infty$ is a minimum, keeping in mind that $T = D$ and $L = W$.

$$
\frac{T}{V_\infty}=\frac{D}{V_\infty}=\frac{D}{L}\frac{L}{V_\infty}=\frac{C_D}{C_L}\frac{W}{V_\infty}
\qquad [5.161]
$$

From the expression for lift $L = W = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L$, we have

$$
V_\infty=\sqrt{\frac{2W}{\rho_\infty S C_L}}
\qquad [5.162]
$$

Substituting Eq. (5.162) into Eq. (5.161), we obtain

$$
\frac{T}{V_\infty}=\frac{C_D}{C_L}W\sqrt{\frac{\rho_\infty S C_L}{2W}}
=\frac{C_D}{C_L^{1/2}}\sqrt{\frac{\rho_\infty S W}{2}}
\qquad [5.163]
$$

From Eq. (5.163), minimum $T/V_\infty$ occurs when the airplane is flying such that $C_D/C_L^{1/2}$ is a minimum, hence when $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ is a maximum. We have already seen in Section 5.4.1 that the velocity for $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ is given by Eq. (5.45), and that this velocity is 1.32 times the velocity for $(L/D)_{\max}$.

In short, to fly at the minimum number of pounds of fuel consumed per unit of velocity, the propeller-driven airplane must fly at $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$. The corresponding velocity is faster than that for $(L/D)_{\max}$. This velocity has come to be called Carson's speed in parts of the aeronautical community:

$$
\text{Carson's speed} = 1.32V_{(L/D)_{\max}}
$$

## 5.14 ENDURANCE

Imagine that you are on an air surveillance mission, on the watch for ground or sea activity of various sorts, or monitoring the path and characteristics of a hurricane. Your main concern is staying in the air for the longest possible time. You want the airplane to have long *endurance*. By definition, endurance is the amount of time that an airplane can stay in the air on one load of fuel.

The flight conditions for maximum endurance are different from those for maximum range, discussed in the previous section. Also, the parameters for endurance