# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

469

Fig. 7.3, simply in order to draw the overall design conclusions itemized above. However, they used more than a slide rule for calculations—they drew also on the collective intuitive feelings of the group, honed by experience. They practiced the *art* of airplane design to the extreme. At the end of that week, a proposal to TWA was prepared, and Arthur Raymond and Harry Wetzel (Douglas’s vice president and general manager) took a long train ride across the country to deliver their proposal to the TWA executive office in New York. There, a three-week series of intense discussions took place; among the TWA representatives present at many of these meetings was Richard Robbins (president of TWA), Jack Frye, and Charles Lindbergh (the same Charles Lindbergh who had gained fame for his transatlantic solo flight in 1927 and who served as a technical consultant to TWA).

Although there were other competitors for the TWA contract, Raymond and Wetzel were successful in convincing TWA of the merits of a twin-engine (“bimotor”) airplane over a trimotor. A major aspect of this consideration was the ability of the airplane to fly successfully on one engine, especially to takeoff at full gross weight from any airport along the TWA route and to be able to climb and maintain level flight over the highest mountains along the route. This was not a trivial consideration, and Raymond’s calculations had a certain degree of uncertainty—the uncertainty that naturally is associated with the early aspects of the conceptual design process, as discussed in Chapter 7. Raymond called from New York to tell Donald Douglas about the critical nature of the one-engine-out performance’s being a pivotal aspect of the discussions with TWA. When Douglas asked Raymond about his latest feelings as to whether the airplane design could meet this performance requirement, Raymond’s reply was: “I did some slide-rule estimates. It comes out 90 percent yes and 10 percent no. The 10 percent is keeping me awake at nights. One thing is sure, it’s never been done before with an aircraft in the weight class we’re talking about.” Douglas conferred with Kindelberger, who took the stand: “There’s only one way to find out. Build the thing and try it.” Douglas made the decision—Raymond should tell TWA that Douglas Company would be able to construct such an airplane.

On September 20, 1932, in Robbin’s office, the contract was signed between TWA and Douglas to build the airplane. Douglas christened the project as the DC-1, the Douglas Commercial One. The contract called for the purchase by TWA of one service test airplane at the cost of $125,000, with the option (indeed, clear intent) of purchasing up to 60 additional airplanes, in lots of 10, 15, or 20 at $58,000 each. The contract was 42 typewritten pages long, 29 of which dealt specifically with the technical specifications. The first three pages of these technical specifications are reproduced in their original form in Fig. 8.36a, b, and c, so that you can obtain a better understanding of the detail to which the design had progressed by that time. Of particular interest is the detailed breakdown of the empty weight in Fig. 8.36c. The list of performance specifications had expanded as well by then, compared to the original one-page list shown in Fig. 8.34. Reproduced in Fig. 8.37 is just one page of the five from the contract dealing with performance. By comparing Figs. 8.36 and 8.37 with the original one-page document first sent out by TWA (Fig. 8.34), the effect of the conceptual design process on the details listed in the final contract is clearly seen. The contract even went to the detailed extent of specifying such items as this: “Air sickness container holders shall be located adjacent to each seat in such a position as to be easily reached with seat in any adjustment.” (Actually, this was not