# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

For maximum $C_L/C_D$, differentiate Eq. (5.27) with respect to $C_L$ and set the result equal to zero:

$$
\frac{d(C_L/C_D)}{dC_L}=\frac{C_{D,0}+KC_L^2-C_L(2KC_L)}{(C_{D,0}+KC_L^2)^2}=0
$$

Hence,

$$
C_{D,0}+KC_L^2-2KC_L^2=0
$$

or

$$
C_{D,0}=KC_L^2
$$

[5.28]

From Eq. (5.28), when $L/D$ is a maximum value, the zero-lift drag equals the drag due to lift. Furthermore, the value of $(L/D)_{\max}$ can be found by rewriting Eq. (5.28) as

$$
C_L=\sqrt{\frac{C_{D,0}}{K}}
$$

[5.29]

and inserting Eqs. (5.28) and (5.29) into Eq. (5.27). [Keep in mind that since Eqs. (5.28) and (5.29) hold only for the condition of maximum $L/D$, then Eq. (5.27) with these insertions yields the value of maximum $L/D$.]

$$
\left(\frac{L}{D}\right)_{\max}=\left(\frac{C_L}{C_{D,0}+KC_L^2}\right)_{\max}=\frac{\sqrt{C_{D,0}/K}}{C_{D,0}+C_{D,0}}=\frac{\sqrt{C_{D,0}/K}}{2C_{D,0}}
$$

or

$$
\left(\frac{L}{D}\right)_{\max}=\left(\frac{C_L}{C_D}\right)_{\max}=\sqrt{\frac{1}{4C_{D,0}K}}
$$

[5.30]

This result is the same as that obtained in Eq. (5.24). However, the above derivation made no assumptions about steady, level flight, and no consideration was given to minimum $T_R$. Equation (5.30) is independent of any such assumptions. It is a *general* result, having to do with the aerodynamics of the airplane via the drag polar. It is the same result whether the airplane is in climbing flight, turning flight, etc.

However, the velocity at which $(L/D)_{\max}$ is achieved is dependent on such considerations. This velocity will be different for climbing flight or turning flight compared to steady, level flight. Let us obtain the velocity at which maximum $L/D$ is attained in steady, level flight. For this case, $L=W$, and hence

$$
L=W=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2SC_L
$$

[5.31]

When $L/D$ is a maximum, Eq. (5.29) holds. Substituting Eq. (5.29) into Eq. (5.31), and denoting, as before, the velocity at which $L/D$ is a maximum by $V_{(L/D)_{\max}}$, we have

$$
W=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_{(L/D)_{\max}}^2S\sqrt{C_{D,0}/K}
$$

[5.32]