98

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

$$
q_\infty = \frac{1}{2}\gamma p_\infty M_\infty^2 = \frac{1.4}{2}(243.6)(2)^2 = 682 \ \text{lb/ft}^2
$$

Hence,

$$
L = q_\infty S C_L = (682)(3,900)(0.0806) = 214,400 \ \text{lb}
$$

*Note:* The maximum fuel-empty weight of the Concorde is 200,000 lb. Although we are by no means making a direct comparison here, the above calculation of the lift for our example wing for our example conditions shows that supersonic wings can produce a lot of lift at low angles of attack (hence with low values of the lift coefficient).

For more details on the aerodynamics of supersonic wings, see the extensive discussion in chapter 11 of Ref. 26.

## Example 2.12

Consider the wing described in Example 2.5, except with a sweep angle of $35^\circ$. Calculate the low-speed lift coefficient at $6^\circ$ angle of attack and compare with the straight-wing results from Example 2.5.

### Solution

$$
\frac{a_0 \cos \Lambda}{\pi AR} = \frac{6.02 \cos 35^\circ}{\pi(6)} = 0.262 \ \text{per radian}
$$

From Eq. (2.19),

$$
a = \frac{a_0 \cos \Lambda}{\sqrt{1 + \left[(a_0 \cos \Lambda)/(\pi AR)\right]^2} + (a_0 \cos \Lambda)/(\pi AR)}
$$

$$
= \frac{6.02 \cos 35^\circ}{\sqrt{1 + (2.62)^2} + 0.262} = 3.8057 \ \text{per radian}
$$

or

$$
a = \frac{3.8057}{57.3} = 0.0664 \ \text{per degree}
$$

$$
C_L = a(\alpha - \alpha_{L=0}) = 0.0664[6 - (-2.2)] = 0.544
$$

*Note:* The straight wing result from Example 2.5 is $C_L = 0.648$. For this case, sweeping the wing by $35^\circ$ decreases the lift coefficient by 16%.

## DESIGN CAMEO

A swept wing is utilized in airplane design to reduce the transonic and supersonic wave drag—it is a design feature that is associated with high-speed airplanes. However, it is important for the designer to recognize that wing sweep is usually a detriment at low speeds. In the above example, we have seen that the low-speed lift coefficient is reduced by sweeping the wing. For the designer, this complicates the design of the airplane for good landing and takeoff performance. To compensate, swept-wing airplanes are frequently designed with elaborate high-lift devices (multielement trailing-edge flaps, leading-edge flaps and slats, etc.). Such high-lift devices are discussed in Chapter 5.