# CHAPTER 9  •  Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

533

with the calculated result from Eq. (2.25). Note that the lift curve does not go through zero, but rather shows a small positive zero-lift angle of about $1^\circ$. This is because the wings are placed at a small negative incidence angle relative to the fuselage due to the effective lifting characteristics of the chined forebody at supersonic speeds. (Here is an example of the configuration of the Blackbird being driven by supersonic cruise considerations.) The angle of attack given on the abscissa of Fig. 9.41 is based on the mean aerodynamic chord of the entire blended wing-body configuration. For this reason, the data point in Fig. 9.41 obtained from Eq. (2.25) for a wing angle of attack of $10^\circ$ is plotted at an angle of attack of $11^\circ$ in Fig. 9.41; this would seem to be a more valid comparison.

These results have a strong effect on landing and takeoff speeds for the Blackbird. As discussed in Section 2.8.1, $(C_L)_{\max}$ for a delta wing is achieved at high angles of attack, on the order of $30^\circ$ to $40^\circ$. This angle of attack was considered too high for the Blackbird; the pilot would have his or her ground view obstructed, plus the landing gear struts would have to be very long, which would add weight. The design angle of attack for approach was fixed at $\alpha = 8.35^\circ$, which from Fig. 9.41 gives a value of $C_L = 0.37$. With this lift coefficient, the approach velocity for a weight of 100,000 lb is

$$
V_\infty=\sqrt{\frac{2W}{\rho_\infty S C_L}}=\sqrt{\frac{2(100,000)}{(0.002377)(1,800)(0.37)}}=355.4\ \text{ft/s}
$$

The landing and takeoff performance of the Blackbird is given in Fig. 9.42. The approach speed as a function of weight is shown at the bottom of Fig. 9.42, given in knots. Noting that 1 kn = 1.689 ft/s, the calculated value of $V_\infty = 355.4$ ft/s is equivalent to 210 kn, which agrees with the value of the approach shown in Fig. 9.42 for a weight of 100,000 lb. Figure 9.42 also shows that the actual touchdown speed is less than the approach speed because of the favorable ground effect. In ground effect, $C_L$ is increased at a fixed angle of attack. For the Blackbird, when the airplane is in ground effect, $C_L$ increased to slightly above 0.5. Hence, maintaining the same angle of attack, the pilot can slow down at touchdown. However, looking in general at Fig. 9.42, we see that the landing and liftoff speeds and distances are quite large compared to those for conventional airplanes. This is the penalty accepted by the Blackbird designers for optimizing the airplane for Mach 3+ speeds. This serves as a graphic example of the compromises to be made in supersonic airplane design. Mach 3+ performance was paramount; landing and takeoff speeds and distance were secondary, especially since the airplanes were intended to only use the long runways of major military airbases.

Aerodynamic heating grows exponentially with Mach number. It is not a driver in the design of subsonic airplanes, but it becomes a factor for supersonic airplanes and a dominant aspect for hypersonic vehicles. At the Mach 3+ speeds of the Blackbird, it was important enough to dictate the material used for construction of the airplane, and it even determined the color of the external surface. To obtain a feeling for the magnitude of the heating problem for the Blackbird, consider the variation of stagnation temperature $T_0$ with $M_\infty$, as given at the equation from Ref. 16