CHAPTER 3 • Some Propulsion Characteristics 155

For the same reason, the specific fuel consumption is also assumed to be independent of $V_\infty$:

$$
\text{SFC is constant with } V_\infty
$$

In the United States, two principal manufacturers of aircraft reciprocating engines are Teledyne Continental and Textron Lycoming. The horsepower ratings at sea level for these engines generally range from 75 to 300 hp. For these engines, a typical value of SFC is 0.4 lb of fuel consumed per horsepower per hour.

As the airplane's altitude changes, the engine power also changes. This is easily seen in Eq. (3.9). The air pressure (also air density) decreases with an increase in altitude; in turn this reduces $p_e$ in Eq. (3.9), which directly reduces $P$. The variation of $P$ with altitude is usually given as a function of the local air density. To a first approximation, we can assume

$$
\frac{P}{P_0} = \frac{\rho}{\rho_0}
\tag{3.11}
$$

where $P$ and $\rho$ are the shaft power output and density, respectively, at a given altitude and $P_0$ and $\rho_0$ are the corresponding values at sea level. There is also a temperature effect on mean effective pressure $p_e$ in Eq. (3.9). An empirical correlation given by Torenbeck (Ref. 35) for the altitude variation of $P$ is

$$
\frac{P}{P_0} = 1.132 \frac{\rho}{\rho_0} - 0.132
\tag{3.12}
$$

The specific fuel consumption is relatively insensitive to changes in altitude, at least for the altitude range for general aviation aircraft. Hence, we assume

$$
\text{SFC is constant with altitude}
$$

The decrease in power with increasing altitude, as indicated by Eqs. (3.11) and (3.12), is for engines *without superchargers*. As early as World War I, it was fully recognized that this decrease in power could be eliminated, or at least delayed to a higher threshold altitude, by compressing the manifold pressure to values above ambient pressure. This compression is carried out by a compressor geared to the engine shaft (a supercharger) or driven by a small turbine mounted in the engine exhaust (a turbosupercharger). These devices tend to maintain a constant value of $p_e$ for the engine as the altitude increases, and hence from Eq. (3.9) the power is essentially constant with altitude. Supercharging was important for the high-performance military and civil transport airplanes of the 1930s and 1940s (the era of the mature, propeller-driven aircraft described in Section 1.2.3). However, supercharging adds expense to the engine, and most general aviation airplanes today are not supercharged. For example, of the 45 different piston engines manufactured by Textron Lycoming as listed in *Jane's All the World's Aircraft* (Ref. 36), only one is supercharged.