362

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

equal to its value at $V_\infty = 0.7V_{LO}$, then Eq. (6.92) is easily integrated, giving

$$
s_g = \frac{W V_{LO}^2}{2g} \left[\frac{1}{T - D - \mu_r(W - L)}\right]_{0.7V_{LO}} + N V_{LO}
\tag{6.93}
$$

where the term $N V_{LO}$ has been added to account for that part of the ground roll during rotation, as noted earlier.

The velocity at liftoff $V_{LO}$ should be no less than $1.1V_{\text{stall}}$, where from Eq. (5.67)

$$
V_{\text{stall}} = \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{(C_L)_{\max}}}
\tag{5.67}
$$

In Eq. (5.67), $(C_L)_{\max}$ is that value with the flaps extended for takeoff; also keep in mind that $(C_L)_{\max}$ may be a smaller value if the angle of attack is limited by tail clearance with the ground. Setting $V_{LO} = 1.1V_{\text{stall}}$ and inserting Eq. (5.67) into Eq. (6.93), we have

$$
s_g = \frac{1.21(W/S)}{g\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}\left[T/W - D/W - \mu_r(1 - L/W)\right]_{0.7V_{LO}}}
+ 1.1N \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{(C_L)_{\max}}}
\tag{6.94}
$$

The design parameters that have an important effect on takeoff ground roll are clearly seen from Eq. (6.94). Specifically, $s_g$ depends on wing loading, thrust-to-weight ratio, and maximum lift coefficient. From Eq. (6.94) we note that

1. $s_g$ increases with an increase in $W/S$.
2. $s_g$ decreases with an increase in $(C_L)_{\max}$.
3. $s_g$ decreases with an increase in $T/W$.

Equation (6.94) can be simplified by assuming that $T$ is much larger than $D + \mu_r(W - L)$; as seen from Fig. 6.15, this is a reasonable assumption. Also, neglect the contribution to $s_g$ due to the rotation segment. With this, Eq. (6.94) can be approximated by

$$
s_g \approx \frac{1.21(W/S)}{g\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}(T/W)}
\tag{6.95}
$$

Equation (6.95) clearly illustrates some important physical trends:

1. The ground roll is very sensitive to the weight of the airplane via both $W/S$ and $T/W$. For example, if the weight is doubled, everything else being the same, then $W/S$ is doubled and $T/W$ is halved, leading to a factor-of-4 increase in $s_g$. Essentially, $s_g$ varies as $W^2$.
2. The ground roll is dependent on the ambient density, through both the explicit appearance of $\rho_\infty$ in Eq. (6.95) and the effect of $\rho_\infty$ on $T$. If we assume that $T \propto \rho_\infty$, then Eq. (6.95) shows that

$$
s_g \propto \frac{1}{\rho_\infty^2}
$$