(continued)

14

## III. General Requirements

### 1. Flying Characteristics

The airplane shall comply with Department of Commerce requirements with regard to general flying characteristics and shall be controllable to the satisfaction of the Buyer in all conditions of flight and taxiing, both when fully loaded and empty. Lateral, longitudinal, and directional stability shall comply with Department of Commerce requirements. The forces necessary to operate the controls shall be light and satisfactory to Buyer.

### 2. Load Factors

The airplane shall comply with Department of Commerce strength requirements and shall have an approved type certificate.

### 3. Interchangeability

All parts and assemblies subject to removal shall be interchangeable. The complete nacelle forward of the firewall, including the engine installed, oil tank and cowling, shall be interchangeable right and left.

## IV. Detailed requirements

### 1. Weights

#### (a) Useful Load

The airplane shall be designed to carry the following useful load:

(1) Crew:  
&emsp;Pilot and co-pilot @ 170 lbs. each.................... 340 lbs.

(2) Fuel and oil for either a normal range of 730  
&emsp;miles at 62.5% of power at 5,000 feet altitude  
&emsp;with a payload of 3400 lbs. made up of:  
&emsp;&emsp;Passengers, 12 @ 170 lbs............................ 2,040 lbs.  
&emsp;&emsp;Baggage, 12 @ 30 lbs................................ 360 lbs.  
&emsp;&emsp;Mail and cargo ..................................... 1,000 lbs.  
&emsp;&emsp;.................................................... 3,400 lbs.

Or a payload of 2,000 lbs. with fuel and oil for  
&emsp;a range of 1,000 miles at 62.5% of power at  
&emsp;an altitude of 5,000 feet.

(6)