# PROBLEMS

The Bede BD-5J is a very small single-seat home-built jet airplane which became available in the early 1970s. The data for the BD-5J are as follows: 5.1

- Wing span: 17 ft
- Wing planform area: 37.8 ft$^2$
- Gross weight at takeoff: 960 lb
- Fuel capacity: 55 gal
- Power plant: one French-built Microturbo TRS 18 turbojet engine with maximum thrust at sea level of 202 lb and a specific fuel consumption of 1.3 lb/(lb$\cdot$h)

We will approximate the drag polar for this airplane by

$$
C_D = 0.02 + 0.062C_L^2
$$

(a) Plot the thrust required and thrust available curves at sea level, and from these curves obtain the maximum velocity at sea level.  
(b) Plot the thrust required and thrust available curves at 10,000 ft, and from these curves obtain the maximum velocity at 10,000 ft.

For the BD-5J (the airplane in Problem 5.1), calculate *analytically* (directly) (a) the maximum velocity at sea level and (b) the maximum velocity at 10,000 ft. Compare these results with those from Problem 5.1. 5.2

Derive Eqs. (5.43), (5.44), and (5.45). 5.3

Using the results of Section 5.4.1, repeat the task in Problem 2.11: Find an expression for the maximum lift-to-drag ratio for a supersonic two-dimensional flat plate, and the angle of attack at which it occurs. Check your results with those from Problem 2.11. They should be identical. 5.4

For the BD-5J, calculate 5.5  
(a) The maximum value of $C_L/C_D$  
(b) The maximum value of $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$  
(c) The velocities at which they occur at sea level  
(d) The velocities at which they occur at 10,000 ft.

The BD-5J is equipped with plain flaps. The airfoil section at the wing root is an NACA 64-212, and interestingly enough, it has a thicker section at the tip, an NACA 64-218 (Reference: *Jane's All the World's Aircraft, 1975-76*). Estimate the stalling speed of the BD-5J at sea level. 5.6

For the BD-5J, plot the power required and power available curves at sea level. From these curves, estimate the maximum rate of climb at sea level. 5.7

Derive Eq. (5.85) for the rate of climb as a function of velocity, thrust-to-weight ratio, wing loading, and the drag polar. 5.8