CHAPTER 2 $\bullet$ Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar 103

Hence,

$$
\frac{s}{l}=\frac{\mathrm{AR}}{4}=\frac{1.46}{4}=0.365
$$

The angle of attack $\alpha$, in radians, is

$$
\alpha=\frac{20}{57.3}=0.349\ \mathrm{rad}
$$

Hence,

$$
\frac{\alpha}{s/l}=\frac{0.349}{0.365}=0.956
$$

From Eq. (2.25),

$$
\frac{C_N}{(s/l)^2}=2\pi\left(\frac{\alpha}{s/l}\right)+4.9\left(\frac{\alpha}{s/l}\right)^{1.7}
$$

$$
=2\pi(0.956)+4.9(0.956)^{1.7}=10.57
$$

Thus,

$$
C_N=10.57\left(\frac{s}{l}\right)^2=10.57(0.365)^2=1.408
$$

$$
C_L=C_N\cos\alpha=1.408\cos20^\circ=1.323
$$

The experimental data in Fig. 2.34 give a value of $C_L = 0.95$ at $\alpha = 20^\circ$; the accuracy of Eq. (2.25) is within 39% for this case. Equation (2.25) is in better agreement with the different experimental data shown in Fig. 2.35.

## 2.8.2 Wing-Body Combinations

We normally think of wings as the primary source for lift for airplanes, and quite rightly so. However, even a pencil at an angle of attack will generate lift, albeit small. Hence, lift is produced by the fuselage of an airplane as well as the wing. The mating of a wing with a fuselage is called a *wing-body combination*. The lift of a wing-body combination is *not* obtained by simply adding the lift of the wing alone to the lift of the body alone. Rather, as soon as the wing and body are mated, the flow field over the body modifies the flow field over the wing, and vice versa—this is called the *wing-body interaction*.

There is no accurate analytical equation which can predict the lift of a wing-body combination, properly taking into account the nature of the wing-body aerodynamic interaction. Either the configuration must be tested in a wind tunnel, or a computational fluid dynamic calculation must be made. We cannot even say in advance whether the combined lift will be greater or smaller than the sum of the two parts.

However, for subsonic speeds, we can take the following approach for preliminary airplane performance and design considerations. Figure 2.36 shows data obtained from Hoerner and Borst (Ref. 18) for a circular fuselage-midwing combination, as sketched at the top of the figure. The diameter of the fuselage is $d$, and the wingspan