438

PÁRT 3 • Airplane Design

From Eq. (8.58), $\bar{c} = 5.17$ ft. Also $S = 176\ \mathrm{ft}^2$. Thus, from Eq. (8.65), we have for the planview area of the horizontal tail

$$
S_{\mathrm{HT}} = \frac{0.7(5.17)(176)}{17.13} = 37.2\ \mathrm{ft}^2
$$

[8.66]

Similarly for the vertical tail, from Eqs. (8.61) and (8.63), and recalling that $b = 35.27$ ft, we have

$$
S_{\mathrm{VT}} = \frac{(0.04)bs}{l_{\mathrm{VT}}}
$$

[8.67]

Again somewhat arbitrarily, let us place the mean aerodynamic center of the vertical tail 1.13 ft forward of that of the horizontal tail; that is, we assume $l_{\mathrm{VT}} = 16$ ft. From Eq. (8.67), we have

$$
S_{\mathrm{VT}} = \frac{(0.04)(35.27)(176)}{16} = 15.5\ \mathrm{ft}^2
$$

[8.68]

To determine the *shape* of the tail surfaces, we quote from Raymer (Ref. 25) that “tails are little wings.” Therefore, we use somewhat of the same logic that was employed in Section 8.6.2 in determining the shape of the wing.

Unlike the wing, whose function is to generate lift strong enough to sustain the airplane in the air, the aerodynamic forces generated on the tail surfaces are relatively small; they need only be large enough to maintain stability and control. Also, the aerodynamic forces on the tail readily change directions, depending on whether the airplane is yawing right or left, and/or pitching up or down, also depending on which direction the rudder and elevator are deflected. Hence, it makes no sense to use a cambered airfoil for the tail sections; rather, the horizontal tail and vertical tail on almost all airplanes use a symmetric airfoil section. A popular choice is the NACA 0012 airfoil. We will use the same for our design on both the horizontal and vertical tails.

First, let us lay out the horizontal tail. Wings of lower aspect ratio, although aerodynamically less efficient, stall at higher angles of attack than wings with higher aspect ratio. Hence, if the horizontal tail has a lower aspect ratio than the wing, when the wing stalls, the tail still has some control authority. To achieve this advantage, we choose an aspect ratio for the horizontal tail less than that for the wing; we choose a value $\mathrm{AR} = 4$. Also, we choose a taper ratio the same as that of the wing, $\lambda = 0.5$. Thus, the span of the horizontal tail $b_t$ is

$$
b_t = \sqrt{(S_{\mathrm{HT}})\mathrm{AR}} = \sqrt{(37.2)(4)} = 12.2\ \mathrm{ft}
$$

The tail root chord $c_{rt}$ is [see Eq. (8.55)]

$$
c_{rt} = \frac{2S_{\mathrm{HT}}}{(\lambda + 1)b_t} = \frac{2(37.2)}{(0.5 + 1)(12.2)} = 4.07\ \mathrm{ft}
$$

The tail tip chord $c_{tt}$ is

$$
c_{tt} = \lambda c_{rt} = (0.5)(4.07) = 2.035\ \mathrm{ft}
$$