130

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

$\alpha$ required to produce the necessary lift. That is, the skin-friction drag (to a lesser extent) and the pressure drag due to flow separation (to a greater extent) change when $\alpha$ changes; the sum of these changes creates $\Delta C_{D,e}$. Moreover, if we return to Fig. 2.6b, which is plot of $c_d$ and $c_l$ for an airfoil, we note that the change in $c_d$, denoted $\Delta c_d$, measured above its minimum value seems to vary approximately as the square of $c_l$. The source of $c_d$ is friction drag and pressure drag due to flow separation (form drag). These physical phenomena are exactly the same source of $C_{D,e}$. Since $\Delta c_d$ varies approximately as $c_l^2$, we can reasonably assume that $\Delta C_{D,e}$ varies as $C_L^2$. Indeed, we assume

$$
C_{D,e} = C_{D,e,0} + \Delta C_{D,e} = C_{D,e,0} + k_1 C_L^2
$$

[2.40]

where $k_1$ is a suitable proportionality constant.

Next, we can dissect the wave drag coefficient $C_{D,w}$ in a similar fashion; that is, $C_{D,w}$ is the sum of the zero-lift wave drag coefficient $C_{D,w,0}$ and the change $\Delta C_{D,w}$ due to lift. Recalling our discussion of supersonic drag in Section 2.8.3, we note that, for a flat plate at angle of attack, the substitution of Eq. (2.32) into (2.33) yields

$$
c_{d,w} = \frac{4\alpha^2}{\sqrt{M_\infty^2 - 1}} = \frac{4}{\sqrt{M_\infty^2 - 1}} \left( \frac{c_l \sqrt{M_\infty^2 - 1}}{4} \right)^2
$$

$$
= \frac{c_l^2 \sqrt{M_\infty^2 - 1}}{4}
$$

[2.41]

Since $c_{d,w}$ is simply the wave drag coefficient due to lift, and since Eq. (2.41) shows that $c_{d,w}$ varies as $c_l^2$, we are comfortable with the assumption that $\Delta C_{D,w}$ varies as $C_L^2$. Hence,

$$
C_{D,w} = C_{D,w,0} + \Delta C_{D,w} = C_{D,w,0} + k_2 C_L^2
$$

[2.42]

where $k_2$ is an appropriate proportionality constant.

Substituting Eqs. (2.40) and (2.42) into Eq. (2.39), we have

$$
C_D = C_{D,e,0} + C_{D,w,0} + k_1 C_L^2 + k_2 C_L^2 + \frac{C_L^2}{\pi e AR}
$$

[2.43]

In Eq. (2.43), define $k_3 \equiv 1/(\pi e AR)$. Then Eq. (2.43) becomes

$$
C_D = C_{D,e,0} + C_{D,w,0} + (k_1 + k_2 + k_3) C_L^2
$$

[2.44]

The sum of the first two terms is simply the zero-lift drag coefficient $C_{D,0}$

$$
C_{D,e,0} + C_{D,w,0} \equiv C_{D,0}
$$

[2.45]

Also, let

$$
k_1 + k_2 + k_3 \equiv K
$$

[2.46]

Substituting Eqs. (2.45) and (2.46) into Eq. (2.44), we have for the complete airplane

$$
C_D = C_{D,0} + K C_L^2
$$

[2.47]