394

PART 3 • Airplane Design

$$
\frac{T_0}{W_0} = \text{constant} \times \frac{W_0}{S}
$$

[7.2]

For the takeoff constraint, $T_0/W_0$ is a linear function of $W_0/S$; this is given by curve $A$ in Fig. 7.6. *Important:* Any value of $T_0/W_0$ above this curve will satisfy the takeoff constraint by resulting in a takeoff distance *smaller* than the required value. So the area above curve $A$ is “allowable” from the point of view of the takeoff constraint.

### Curve B: Landing Constraint

If the requirements specify a maximum landing length, then curve $B$ represents this constraint. Equation (6.123) gives the landing ground roll. Let us represent the landing distance by Eq. (6.123), repeated here:

$$
s_g = jN \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{(C_L)_{\max}}} + \frac{j^2(W/S)}{g\rho_\infty(C_L)_{\max}[T_{\mathrm{rev}}/D + D/W + \mu_r(1 - L/W)]}
$$

[6.123]

For a given value of $s_g$, there is only one value of $W/S$ that satisfies this equation. Hence, the landing constraint is represented by a vertical line through this particular value of $W/S$. This is shown by curve $B$ in Fig. 7.6. Values of $W_0/S$ to the left of this vertical line will satisfy the constraint by resulting in a landing distance *smaller* than the required value. So the area to the left of curve $B$ is “allowable” from the point of view of the landing constraint.

### Curve C: Sustained Level Turn

If the requirements specify a sustained level turn with a given load factor at a given altitude and speed, then curve $C$ represents this constraint. Equation (6.18), repeated here, relates load factor, $T/W$, and $W/S$ for a sustained level turn.

$$
n_{\max} =
\left\{
\frac{\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}{K(W/S)}
\left[
\left(\frac{T}{W}\right)_{\max}
-
\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 \frac{C_{D,0}}{W/S}
\right]
\right\}^{1/2}
$$

[6.18]

For the given constraint, all quantities in Eq. (6.18) are given except the two variables $T/W$ and $W/S$. Solving Eq. (6.18) for $T/W$, we can write

$$
\frac{T_0}{W_0} = C_1 \frac{W}{S} + \frac{C_2}{W/S}
$$

[7.3]

where $C_1$ and $C_2$ are constants. Equation (7.3) is represented by curve $C$ in Fig. 7.6. Values of $T_0/W_0$ above curve $C$ will satisfy the sustained turn requirements. The area above curve $C$ is “allowable” from the point of view of the sustained turning requirement.

Assuming curves $A$, $B$, and $C$ represent the only constraints, the area in Fig. 7.6 that is common to the three allowable areas is the shaded area identified as the *solution space*. An airplane with any combination of $T_0/W_0$ and $W_0/S$ that falls within this solution space will satisfy the constraints imposed by the requirements.

By constructing the constraint diagram as shown in Fig. 7.6, the airplane designer can intelligently decide where to start the preliminary design, hence avoiding some