CHAPTER 7 • The Philosophy of Airplane Design

383

screen) of the airplane configuration. But we have to visualize this drawing as one with flexible lines, capable of being *slightly changed* during the second design phase, the preliminary design phase. However, the conceptual design phase determines such fundamental aspects as the shape of the wings (swept back, swept forward, or straight), the location of the wings relative to the fuselage, the shape and location of the horizontal and vertical tail, the use of a canard surface or not, engine size and placement, etc. Figure 7.1 is an example of the level of detail in a configuration layout at the end of the conceptual design phase. (Shown in Fig. 7.1 is the World War II vintage Bell P-39 Airacobra, chosen for its historical significance and aesthetic beauty.)

The major drivers during the conceptual design process are aerodynamics, propulsion, and flight performance. The first-order question is: Can the design meet the specifications? If the answer is yes, then the next question is: Is the design optimized, that is, is it the best design that meets the specifications? These questions are answered during the conceptual design phase by using tools primarily from aerodynamics, propulsion, and flight performance (e.g., material from Chapters 2, 3, 5, and 6). Structural and control system considerations are not dealt with in any detail. However, they are not totally absent. For example, during the conceptual design phase, the designer is influenced by such qualitative aspects as the increased structural loads imposed by a high horizontal T-tail versus a more conventional horizontal tail location through the fuselage, and the difficulties associated with cutouts in the wing structure if the landing gear are to retract into the wing rather than the fuselage or engine nacelle. No part of the design process is ever carried out in a total vacuum unrelated to the other parts.

## 7.2.2 Preliminary Design

In the preliminary design phase, only minor changes are made to the configuration layout (indeed, if major changes were demanded during this phase, the conceptual design process would have been seriously flawed to begin with). It is in the preliminary design phase that serious structural and control system analysis and design take place. During this phase also, substantial wind tunnel testing will be carried out, and major computational fluid dynamic (CFD) calculations of the complete flow field over the airplane configuration will be made. It is possible that the wind tunnel tests and/or the CFD calculations will uncover some undesirable aerodynamic interference, or some unexpected stability problems, which will promote changes to the configuration layout. At the end of the preliminary design phase, the airplane configuration is frozen and precisely defined. The drawing process called *lofting* is carried out which mathematically models the precise shape of the outside skin of the airplane, making certain that all sections of the aircraft properly fit together. (Lofting is a term carried over to airplane design from ship design. Historically, shipbuilders designed the shape of the hull in the loft, an area located above the shipyard floor.)

The end of the preliminary design phase brings a major decision—to commit to the manufacture of the airplane or not. The importance of this decision point for modern aircraft manufacturers cannot be understated, considering the tremendous costs involved in the design and manufacture of a new airplane. This is no better