# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

403

For takeoff, segment 0–1, historical data show that $W_1/W_0$ is small, on the order of 0.97. Hence, we assume

$$
\frac{W_1}{W_0} = 0.97
$$

[8.9]

For climb, segment 1–2, we again rely on historical data for a first estimate, which indicate that $W_2/W_1$ is also small, on the order of 0.985. Hence, we assume

$$
\frac{W_2}{W_1} = 0.985
$$

[8.10]

For cruise, segment 2–3, we make use of the Breguet range equation, Eq. (5.153). This requires an estimate of $L/D$. At this stage of our design process (pivot point 2 in Fig. 7.3), we cannot carry out a detailed aerodynamic analysis to predict $L/D$—we have not even laid out the shape of the airplane yet (which comes later in the process, pivot point 4 in Fig. 7.3). Therefore, we can only make a crude approximation, again based on data from existing airplanes. Loftin (Ref. 13) has tabulated the values of $(L/D)_{\max}$ for a number of famous aircraft over the past century. The values for some representative reciprocating engine/propeller-driven airplanes of the size likely to carry four to six people are tabulated below, obtained by Loftin.

| Airplane | $(L/D)_{\max}$ |
|---|---:|
| Cessna 310 | 13.0 |
| Beach Bonanza | 13.8 |
| Cessna Cardinal | 14.2 |

Hence, a reasonable first approximation for our airplane is

$$
(L/D)_{\max} = 14
$$

[8.11]

Also needed in the range equation, Eq. (5.153), are the specific fuel consumption $c$ and propeller efficiency $\eta$. As stated in Section 3.3.1, a typical value of specific fuel consumption for current aircraft reciprocating engines is 0.4 lb of fuel consumed per horsepower per hour. In consistent units, noting that 1 hp = 550 ft·lb/s, we have

$$
c = 0.4 \frac{\mathrm{lb}}{\mathrm{hp}\!\cdot\!\mathrm{h}} \frac{1\ \mathrm{hp}}{550\ \mathrm{ft}\!\cdot\!\mathrm{lb/s}} \frac{1\ \mathrm{h}}{3{,}600\ \mathrm{s}}
$$

$$
c = 2.02 \times 10^{-7} \frac{\mathrm{lb}}{(\mathrm{ft}\!\cdot\!\mathrm{lb/s})} (\mathrm{s})
$$

[8.12]

A reasonable value for the propeller efficiency, assuming a variable-pitch propeller (we will make this choice now—for a business aircraft, the cost of a variable-pitch propeller over that for a cheaper, fixed-pitch propeller is justified) is, from Section 3.3.2,

$$
\eta_{pr} = 0.85
$$

[8.13]