# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

true aeronautical engineers are highlighted. In this section, we reexamine the design of the *Wright Flyer* relative to the design philosophy discussed in Chapter 7, and we address the question of how closely the Wright brothers followed the intellectual pivot points listed in Fig. 7.3. Before you continue, please review Section 1.2.2 and Fig. 7.3.

There were no customer requirements specified for the *Wright Flyer*. There were only the requirements set by the Wright brothers themselves, namely, to design a powered flying machine that would lift a human being off the ground and fly through the air without loss of speed in a fully controlled fashion. For the Wright brothers, this was intellectual pivot point 1 in Fig. 7.3.

We have stated earlier that aircraft design is more often evolutionary than revolutionary. The design of the *Wright Flyer* was *both*. Let us explain. The Wrights did not operate in a vacuum. They inherited the bulk of aeronautical progress that occurred during the nineteenth century, including the work of Lilienthal, Langley, and Chanute (see Chapter 1). Jakab states in Ref. 1:

> An important beginning step of the Wrights' engineering approach to human flight was to become acquainted with the work of previous experimenters. By the time the brothers began their study of flight at the close of the nineteenth century, a growing community of aeronautical experimenters had emerged. As the field slowly organized, publication and dissemination of aeronautical research grew more widespread. Through contact with several key individuals and sources of information, the brothers were able to digest the work of generations of experimenters. Familiarization with these prior developments aided the Wrights in defining the basic obstacles to human flight and outlining their initial approach to the problem. Their literature search enabled them to take advantage of already established principles and to avoid dead-end paths pursued by others.

In many respects, the *Wright Flyer* evolved from this earlier work. Most likely, if the first successful airplane had not been designed and flown by the Wrights in 1903, someone else would have done it within the decade. Moreover, the Wrights began with three glider designs, the first two of which in 1900 and 1901 were based almost entirely on the existing bulk of aeronautical knowledge. These two glider designs were not successful, and the Wrights ultimately blamed the failure on errors in the existing data, particularly on a table of normal and axial force coefficients generated by Lilienthal. However, I have shown in Ref. 8 that the Wrights made three distinct errors in the interpretation of the Lilienthal tables which account for the failure of their 1900 and 1901 gliders. Nevertheless, the Wrights made the decision in the fall of 1902 to throw away the existing data and generate their own. To this end, they built a small wind tunnel and tested over a hundred different wing and airfoil shapes, finding out for themselves what constituted “good aerodynamics” for their purposes. On the basis of their wind tunnel results, they designed a new glider which in 1902 flew beautifully. The next step, in 1903, was the design of a powered machine—the *Wright Flyer*. Hence, the *Wright Flyer* indirectly inherited some of the aeronautical features developed in the nineteenth century and directly inherited the knowledge generated with the Wrights' 1902 glider. In these respects, the design of the *Wright Flyer* can be considered *evolutionary*.

However, the *Wright Flyer* was also *revolutionary* in the sense that it *worked*. It was the first flying machine to successfully fly, whereas all prior attempts by other