492

PART 3 • Airplane Design

that the exit of the engine tailpipe was forward of, or just in line with, the wing leading edge, then there was virtually no unfavorable aerodynamic interference between the pods and the wing—in the words of Bill Cook (Ref. 63), “The wing was performing like the pods were absent.” In essence, the underslung jet pods could be designed with very low drag characteristics.

With the design features of the swept wing and the podded engines underneath the wings, Boeing was way ahead of any of its competitors. But there were other unique design problems to solve. Not desiring to retract the landing gear into the relatively thin, 12%-thick wings, and avoiding fuselage side bulges if a conventional tricycle arrangement were retracted into the side of the fuselage, Boeing engineers chose a bicycle landing gear which retracted directly into the bottom of the fuselage. However, this meant that the airplane could not rotate on takeoff, so a large incidence angle of the wing relative to the fuselage had to be adopted—$8^\circ$ between the wing chord and the horizontal ground—to allow enough lift to be generated for takeoff. And then there were flexure problems. The B-47 wing had a very high aspect ratio of 9.43; no other swept-wing airplane since has had such a high aspect ratio. Also, the fuselage was long and thin. Both the wings and the fuselage flexed during gust loads in flight. The effects of these flexures were not major problems, but they needed to be taken into account in the stability and control aspects of the airplane. In addition, the high sweepback of the wing, $35^\circ$, gave the B-47 a substantial degree of lateral stability (a high effective dihedral) and an unacceptable Dutch-roll characteristic. The Boeing engineers designed a full-time stability augmentation system to solve the Dutch-roll problem; it consisted of a rate gyro that generated corrective rudder deflection. It was the first use of a full-time stability augmentation system on a production airplane, and the same technique is still used today.

The first flight of the XB-47 took place on December 17, 1947 (44 years to the day after the first flight of the *Wright Flyer*). The Air Force had agreed to purchase two prototypes, but amazingly enough did not show great enthusiasm for the new bomber of revolutionary design. This was mainly due to the poor performance of the earlier straight-wing jet bombers, such as the North American B-45, which had soured Wright Field on the idea of jet bombers in general. Even top Boeing management was cautious about the XB-47, and the flight tests which took place at Moses Lake airfield, about 120 mi from Seattle, were initially carried out without fanfare. The exception was the small flight test crew at Moses Lake, who immediately witnessed the tremendous performance characteristics of the airplane. Indeed, the early tests quickly proved that the drag of the XB-47 was 15% less than the predicted value—a cause for great celebration, since this meant the range of the airplane was greater than expected, something of real importance for a bomber. The low drag results finally got the attention of the Boeing management in Seattle, and after that, interest in the airplane suddenly picked up within the company. This was followed by an event that was essentially a happenstance. Although the Air Force test pilots flying the XB-47 were almost finished with their test program, the Air Force was still not showing great interest; the Project Office at Wright Field had turned its attention to turboprop bombers, thinking that turboprops were the only engines that would give the necessary long range for bombers. General K. B. Wolfe, head of bomber production at Wright