296

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

At first glance, it would appear from Eq. (5.152) that to obtain the largest possible range, we would want to fly simultaneously at the highest possible velocity and at the largest possible value of $L/D$. Indeed, Eq. (5.152) clearly states the importance of high aerodynamic efficiency (high $L/D$) in obtaining large range. However, $V_\infty$ and $L/D$ are not independent. Keep in mind that for a given airplane $L/D$ varies with angle of attack, which in turn changes as $V_\infty$ changes in level flight. Hence, $L/D$ is a function of $V_\infty$ in this case. From Eq. (5.152), to obtain maximum range, we need to fly at a condition where the product $V_\infty (L/D)$ is maximized. This condition is different for propeller-driven and jet-propelled airplanes, and therefore we must consider each category of aircraft in turn. This is the subject of the next two subsections.

## 5.13.1 Range for Propeller-Driven Airplanes

As discussed in Chapter 3, the specific fuel consumption for propeller/reciprocating engine power plants is fundamentally expressed in terms of power and is given by Eq. (5.144). Hence, it is convenient to express the range equation for propeller-driven airplanes in terms of the specific fuel consumption $c$, rather than the thrust specific fuel consumption $c_t$. The relation between $c$ and $c_t$ is given by Eq. (3.43). Hence, Eq. (5.152) can be expressed as

$$
R = \frac{V_\infty}{c_t} \frac{L}{D} \ln \frac{W_0}{W_1} = \frac{\eta_{pr}}{c V_\infty} V_\infty \frac{L}{D} \ln \frac{W_0}{W_1}
$$

or

$$
R = \frac{\eta_{pr}}{c} \frac{L}{D} \ln \frac{W_0}{W_1}
\qquad [5.153]
$$

Equation (5.153) is the *historical* Breguet range equation, and it dates back to before 1920.

*Important:* Note that $V_\infty$ does not appear in Eq. (5.153); it is canceled when $c$ is used instead of $c_t$. Therefore, the clear impact of the lift-to-drag ratio on range for a propeller-driven airplane is blatantly seen in Eq. (5.153).

For an airplane with a propeller/reciprocating engine power plant, how do you obtain the largest possible range? Equation (5.153) tells the story, namely, for maximum range:

1. Fly at maximum $L/D$.
2. Have the highest possible propeller efficiency.
3. Have the lowest possible specific fuel consumption.
4. Have the highest possible ratio of gross weight to empty weight (i.e., carry a lot of fuel).

The flight conditions associated with $(L/D)_{\max}$ have been discussed in Section 5.4.1. It follows that the theoretical maximum range for a propeller-driven airplane is obtained by flying at the velocity where zero-lift drag equals the drag due to lift,