240

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

Power available for a propeller/reciprocating engine combination is discussed in Section 3.3. In particular,

$$
P_A = \eta_{pr} P
$$

[3.13]

where $\eta_{pr}$ is the propeller efficiency and $P$ is the shaft power from the reciprocating engine. Before you read further, review Section 3.3, paying particular attention to aspects of shaft power and propeller efficiency.

From the discussion in Section 3.3, we recall that the velocity and altitude effects on $P$ for a piston engine are as follows:

1. Power $P$ is reasonably constant with $V_\infty$.
2. For an unsupercharged engine,

$$
\frac{P}{P_0} = \frac{\rho}{\rho_0}
$$

[3.11]

where $P$ and $\rho$ are the shaft power output and density, respectively, at altitude and $P_0$ and $\rho_0$ are the corresponding values at sea level. Taking into account the temperature effect, a slightly more accurate expression is

$$
\frac{P}{P_0} = 1.132 \frac{\rho}{\rho_0} - 0.132
$$

[3.12]

3. For a supercharged engine, $P$ is essentially constant with altitude up to the critical design altitude of the supercharger. Above this critical altitude, $P$ decreases according to Eq. (3.11) or Eq. (3.12) with $\rho_0$ in these equations replaced by the density at the critical altitude, denoted by $\rho_{\text{crit}}$.

The power available for a turboprop is discussed in Section 3.6, which you should review before proceeding further. From that discussion, we have

$$
P_A = \eta_{pr} P_{es}
$$

[3.29]

where $P_{es}$ is the *equivalent* shaft power, which includes the effect of the jet thrust. Moreover, the velocity and altitude variations of $P_A$ for a turboprop are as follows:

1. Power available $P_A$ is reasonably constant with $V_\infty$ (or $M_\infty$).
2. The altitude effect is approximated by

$$
\frac{P_A}{P_{A,0}} = \left(\frac{\rho}{\rho_0}\right)^n \qquad n = 0.7
$$

[3.36]