348

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

In Section 5.10, our governing relation for steady climb was Eq. (5.80), rewritten here:

$$
\frac{\text{Excess power}}{W}=R/C
$$

[6.63]

Equations (6.52) and (6.63) are the same equation. So our discussion in Section 5.10 was based on a special form of Eq. (6.61), namely, Eq. (6.62).

Specific excess power allows an increase in the energy height of an airplane, as follows. Return to the definition of energy height given by Eq. (6.56). Differentiating this expression with respect to time, we have

$$
\frac{dH_e}{dt}=\frac{dh}{dt}+\frac{V_\infty}{g}\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}
$$

[6.64]

The right-hand sides of Eqs. (6.61) and (6.64) are identical. Hence

$$
P_s=\frac{dH_e}{dt}
$$

[6.65]

That is, the *time rate of change of energy height is equal to the specific excess power.* An airplane can increase its energy height simply by the application of excess power. In Fig. 6.8, airplanes A and B can reach the energy height of airplane D if they have enough specific excess power to do so.

*Question:* How can we ascertain whether a given airplane has enough $P_s$ to reach a certain energy height? The answer has to do with contours of constant $P_s$ on an altitude-Mach number map. Let us see how such contours can be constructed.

### $P_s$ Contours

Return to Fig. 5.33, and recall that excess power is the difference between power available and power required. For a given altitude, say, $h$, the excess power (hence $P_s$) can be plotted versus velocity (or Mach number); $P_s$ first increases with velocity, then reaches a maximum, and finally decreases to zero as the velocity approaches $V_{\max}$ for the airplane. This variation is sketched in Fig. 6.9a, which is a graph of $P_s$ versus Mach number. Three curves are shown, each one corresponding to a given altitude. These results can be cross-plotted on an altitude-Mach number map using $P_s$ as a parameter, as illustrated in Fig. 6.9b. For example, consider all the points on Fig. 6.9a where $P_s=0$; these correspond to points along a horizontal axis through $P_s=0$, that is, points along the abscissa in Fig. 6.9a. Such points are labeled $a$, $b$, $c$, $d$, $e$, and $f$ in Fig. 6.9a. Now replot these points on the altitude-Mach number map in Fig. 6.9b. Here, points $a$, $b$, $c$, $d$, $e$, and $f$ form a bell-shaped curve, along which $P_s=0$. This curve is called the $P_s$ contour for $P_s=0$. Similarly, all points with $P_s=200$ ft/s are on the horizontal line $AB$ in Fig. 6.9a, and these points can be cross-plotted to generate the $P_s=200$ ft/s contour in Fig. 6.9b. In this fashion, an entire series of $P_s$ contours can be generated in the altitude-Mach number map.

The shapes of the curves shown in Fig. 6.9a and b are typical of a subsonic airplane. They look somewhat different for a supersonic airplane because of the effects of the drag-divergence phenomenon on drag, hence excess power. For a supersonic airplane, the $P_s$-Mach number curves at different altitudes will appear as sketched in