# CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

Fig. 6.1. Here, the airplane is banked through the roll angle $\phi$. The magnitude of the lift $L$ and the value of $\phi$ are adjusted such that the vertical component of lift, denoted by $L \cos \phi$, exactly equals the weight, or

$$
L \cos \phi = W
$$

[6.1]

Under this condition, the altitude of the airplane will remain constant. Hence, Eq. (6.1) applies only to the case of a level turn; indeed, it is the *necessary condition for a level turn.*

Another way of stating this necessary condition is to consider the resultant force $\mathbf{F}_r$, which is the vector sum of vectors $\mathbf{L}$ and $\mathbf{W}$. As shown in Fig. 6.1, for the case of the level turn, the magnitude and direction of $\mathbf{L}$ are adjusted to be just right so that the vector sum of $\mathbf{L}$ and $\mathbf{W}$ results in $\mathbf{F}_r$ always being in the horizontal plane. In this fashion the altitude remains constant.

The generalized force diagram for an airplane in climbing and banking flight is given in Fig. 4.3. When this figure is specialized for level flight, that is, $\theta = 0$, and assuming the thrust vector is parallel to the free-stream direction, that is, $\epsilon = 0$, then the force diagram for a level turn is obtained as sketched in Fig. 6.1. The governing equation of motion is given by Eq. (4.7), specialized for the case of $\theta = 0$ and $\epsilon = 0$, namely,

$$
m \frac{V_\infty^2}{r_2} = L \sin \phi
$$

[6.2]

Recalling Fig. 4.5, we see that $r_2$ is the local radius of curvature of the flight path in the horizontal plane. This is the same as the radius $R$ shown in Fig. 6.1. Hence, for a level turn, the governing equation of motion is, from Eq. (6.2),

$$
m \frac{V_\infty^2}{R} = L \sin \phi
$$

[6.3]

Equation (6.3) is simply a physical statement that the centrifugal force $mV_\infty^2/R$ is balanced by the radial force $L \sin \phi$.

The two performance characteristics of greatest importance in turning flight are

1. The turn radius $R$.
2. The turn rate $\omega \equiv d\psi/dt$, where $\psi$ is defined in Fig. 6.1. The turn rate is simply the local *angular velocity* of the airplane along the curved flight path.

These characteristics are particularly germane to combat aircraft. For superior dogfighting capability, the airplane should have the smallest possible turn radius $R$ and the fastest possible turn rate $\omega$. What aspects of the airplane determine $R$ and $\omega$? Let us examine this question.

First, take another look at Fig. 6.1. The airplane is turning due to the radial force $\mathbf{F}_r$. The larger the magnitude of this force $\mathbf{F}_r$, the tighter and faster will be the turn. The magnitude $F_r$ is the horizontal component of the lift $L \sin \phi$. As $L$ increases, $F_r$ increases for two reasons: (1) The length of the lift vector increases, and (2) $\phi$