aircraft  
performance  
and design

This exciting new book provides readers with a unique, integrated approach to aircraft performance and design. Intended as a text for the first course in airplane performance, Dr. Anderson's coverage of design philosophy and methodology conveys how working engineers achieve performance standards.

Part I of the book provides the needed background material, including overviews of aerodynamics and propulsion, and historical information. Part II deals with static and accelerated aircraft performance and equations of motion, with both graphical and analytical solution techniques. "Design Cameos" are included in the first two parts to emphasize the role and importance of engineering design techniques. Part III covers design methodologies, illustrated by historical examples throughout, and can be used for the first part of a senior design course.

As with Dr. Anderson's other bestselling books in aeronautical engineering, **AIRCRAFT, PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN** is notable for its **clear, engaging writing style**, practical examples and outstanding homework problems.

Related titles of interest include:

* Anderson, *Introduction to Flight, 6/e*
* Borman & Ragland, *Combustion Engineering*
* Nelson, *Flight Stability and Automatic Control, 2/e*
* Hyer, *Stress Analysis of Fiber-Reinforced Composite Materials*
* Budynas, *Advanced Strength and Applied Stress Analysis, 2/e*
* Wiesel, *Spaceflight Dynamics, 2/e*
* Oosthuizen & Carscallen, *Compressible Fluid Flow*

The McGraw-Hill Companies

McGraw Hill Higher Education

Visit us at: **www.tatamcgrawhill.com**

ISBN-13: 978-0-07-070245-5  
ISBN-10: 0-07-070245-4