460

PART 3 • Airplane Design

inventors had met with failure. And the Wrights’ design approach was unique for that time, which adds to the revolutionary nature of the *Wright Flyer*. This uniqueness is nicely caught by Jakab (Ref. 1):

> The Wrights’ persistent attention to the overall goal of a completely successful flying machine during every phase of the work was also an important aspect of their inventive method. Each experimental glider and powered airplane they built, as well as every individual element of each aircraft, was seen and valued in terms of the ultimate aim of building a practical aircraft. The Wrights’ approach was distinct among aeronautical experimenters in that they believed no specific component to be more important than any other. They recognized that every aspect of a workable flying machine must be designed to coordinate with every other. No matter how advanced the wing, without an adequate control system, an aircraft will not fly. No matter how effective the control system, without a sound structural design to carry the flight loads, an aircraft will not fly. And so on. Wilbur and Orville understood that an airplane is not a single device, but a series of discrete mechanical and structural entities, that, when working in proper unison, result in a machine capable of flight. Moreover, realizing that the pilot is a part of this system, they devoted as much attention to learning to fly their aircraft as they did in designing and building them.

For all these reasons, the *Wright Flyer* was *revolutionary*.

For the *Wright Flyer*, the intellectual process embodied in pivot points 2 and 3 in Fig. 7.3 was a combination of experience with the 1902 glider and new, innovative thinking by the Wrights. First, consider the estimation of weight and wing surface area (hence wing loading $W/S$). The 1901 glider, with pilot, weighed 240 lb and had a wing area of 290 ft$^2$. Although the 1902 glider was redesigned with different aerodynamics, for their calculations the Wrights kept the weight essentially the same as that of the 1901 glider, namely 240 lb. Their wind tunnel tests had identified a wing with aspect ratio 6, curvature (camber) of $\frac{1}{20}$, and a parabolic airfoil shape as the most efficient aerodynamic shape. Moreover, the maximum lift-to-drag ratio for this wing was achieved with an angle of attack of $5^\circ$. This is perhaps one reason why the Wrights felt that a “proper” range of flight angle of attack was $4^\circ$ to $8^\circ$, as stated by Wilbur in a paper delivered to the Society of Western Engineers in Chicago on June 24, 1903. (This was Wilbur’s second paper to the Society, the first being delivered on September 18, 1901.) The Wrights calculated lift in pounds, using the formula

$$
L = kSV^2C_L
$$

[8.85]

where $k$ is Smeaton’s coefficient, measured by the Wrights to be 0.0033 (see Ref. 8 for the role of Smeaton’s coefficient in history), $S$ is the wing area in square feet, $V$ is velocity in miles per hour, and $C_L$ is their measured value for the lift coefficient. At the lowest angle of attack deemed proper, namely, $4^\circ$, their measured lift coefficient was 0.433 (interpolated from their tables in Ref. 58). Thus, from Eq. (8.85), putting $L = W$, we have for the calculated wing loading

$$
\frac{W}{S} = kV^2C_L
$$

[8.86]