# References

48. D. J. Peake and M. Tobak, “Three-Dimensional Flows about Simple Components at Angle of Attack,” *High Angle-of-Attack Aerodynamics*, AGARD/VKI Lecture Series No. 121, von Karman Institute, Brussels, Belgium, March 1982.

49. Francis, J. Hale, *Introduction to Aircraft Performance, Selection and Design*, Wiley, New York, 1984.

50. Barnes W. McCormick, *Aerodynamics, Aeronautics, and Flight Mechanics*, Wiley, New York, 1979.

51. B. H. Carson, “Fuel Efficiency of Small Aircraft,” AIAA Paper No. 80-1847, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Washington, 1980.

52. Leland M. Nicoli, *Fundamentals of Aircraft Design*, published by the author and distributed by METS, Inc., San Jose, CA, 1975.

53. Jan Roskam, *Airplane Design*, Roskam Aviation and Engineering Corp., Ottawa, KS, 1985.

54. Darrol, Stinton, *The Design of the Airplane*, Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York, 1983.

55. Gerald Corning, *Supersonic and Subsonic Airplane Design*, self-published, College Park, MD, 1970.

56. N. Currey, *Aircraft Landing Gear Design: Principles and Practices*, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Washington, 1988.

57. H. Conway, *Landing Gear Design*, Chapman and Hall, London, 1958.

58. Marvin W. McFarland, ed., *The Papers of Wilbur and Orville Wright*, vol. 1, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1953.

59. Donald W. Douglas, “The Developments and Reliability of the Modern Multi-Engine Air Liner with Special Reference to Multi-Engine Airplanes after Engine Failure,” *The Aeronautical Journal*, vol. 39, November 1935, pp. 1010-1042; also reprinted in *Journal of the Aeronautical Sciences*, vol. 2, no. 4, July 1935, pp. 128-52.

60. Arthur E. Raymond, “Recollections of Douglas 1925-1960,” *Journal of the American Aviation Historical Society*, Summer 1987, pp. 110-25.

61. D. J. Ingells, *The Plane that Changed the World*, Aero Publishers, Fallbrook, CA, 1966.

62. Ronald Miller and David Sawers, *The Technical Development of Modern Aviation*, Praeger Publishers, New York, 1970.

63. William H. Cook, *The Road to the 707*, TYC Publishing Company, Bellevue, WA, 1991.

64. J. E. Steiner, G. M. Bowes, F. G. Maxam. S. Wallick, and M. C. Gregoire, *Case Study in Aircraft Design: The Boeing 727*, AIAA Professional Study Series, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Washington, September 1978.

65. J. E. Steiner, “Jet Aviation Development: A Company Perspective,” in *The Jet Age*, edited by Walter J. Boyne and Donald S. Lopez, Smithsonian Press, Washington, 1979, pp. 141-83.

66. J. K. Buckner, D. B. Benepe, and P. W. Hill, “Aerodynamic Design Evolution of the YF-16,” AIAA Paper No. 74-935, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Washington, 1974.

67. Clarence L. Johnson and Maggie Smith, *Kelly*, Smithsonian Institution Press, Washington, 1985.

68. Ben R. Rich, and Leo Janos, *Skunk Works*, Little, Brown, Boston, 1994.

69. Clarence L. Johnson, “Some Development Aspects of the YF-12A Interceptor Aircraft,” AIAA Paper No. 69-757, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Washington, 1969.

70. Ben R. Rich, “The F-12 Series Aircraft Aerodynamic and Thermodynamic Design in Retrospect,” AIAA Paper No. 73-820, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Washington, 1973.

71. Richard Abrams and Jay Miller, *Lockheed (General Dynamics/Boeing) F-22*, Aerofax, Inc., Arlington, TX, 1992.