474

PART 3 • Airplane Design

as trivial as it may seem today; the airplane was unpressurized, and hence it would be flying, as did all aircraft at that time, at low altitudes where there was plenty of air turbulence, especially in bad weather.)

The concern that the Douglas designers put into the aspect of one-engine-out flight is reflected in a detailed technical paper written by Donald Douglas, and presented by Douglas as the Twenty-Third Wilbur Wright Memorial Lecture of the Royal Aeronautical Society in London on May 30, 1935. The annual Wilbur Wright Lectures were (and still are) the most prestigious lectures of the Society. It was a testimonial to Douglas' high reputation that he had received the Society's invitation. The paper (Ref. 59) was entitled: "The Developments and Reliability of the Modern Multi-Engine Air Liner with Special Reference to Multi-Engine Airplanes after Engine Failure." Douglas began his paper with a statement that is as apropos today as it was then:

> Four essential features are generally required of any form of transportation: Speed, safety, comfort and economy.

However, today we would add *environmentally clean* to the list. Douglas went on:

> The airplane must compete with other forms of transportation and with other airplanes. The greater speed of aircraft travel justifies a certain increase in cost. The newer transport planes are comparable with, if not superior to, other means of transportation. Safety is of special importance and improvement in this direction demands the airplane designer's best efforts.

Douglas then concentrated on engine failure as it related to airplane safety. He wrote:

> Statistics show that the foremost cause of accident is still the forced landing. The multi-engine airplane, capable of flying with one or more engines not operating, is the direct answer to the dangers of an engine failure. It is quite apparent, however, that for an airplane that is not capable of flying with one engine dead the risk increases with the number of engines installed. Hence, from the standpoint of forced landings, it is not desirable that an airplane be multi-engine unless it can maintain altitude over any portion of the air line with at least one engine dead. Furthermore, the risk increases with the number of remaining engines needed to maintain the required altitude. In general, therefore, the greatest safety is obtained from—
>
> 1. The largest number of engines that can be cut out without the ceiling of the airplane falling below a required value;
> 2. The smallest number of engines on which the airplane can maintain this given altitude.
>
> For airplanes equipped with from one to four engines, it follows that the order of safety is according to the list following.

Douglas followed with a list of 10 options, starting with the category “four-engine airplane requiring 1 engine to maintain given altitude” as the most safe and “four-engine airplane requiring 4 engines to maintain given altitude” as obviously the least safe. Fourth down on the list was the two-engine airplane requiring one engine to maintain given altitude—this was the category of the DC-1 (and the DC-2 and DC-3 to follow). It is statistically safer than a three-engine airplane requiring two engines to maintain given altitude, which was fifth on Douglas's list.