416

PART 3 • Airplane Design

Assuming $W$ is equal to the takeoff gross weight $W_0 = 5{,}158\ \mathrm{lb}$ (ignoring the small amount of fuel burned during the takeoff run), and recalling our estimate of $\eta_{pr} = 0.8$, we have from Eq. (8.45)

$$
P = \frac{30.93W_0}{\eta_{pr}} = \frac{(30.93)(5{,}158)}{0.8} = 1.994 \times 10^5\ \mathrm{ft\!\cdot\!lb/s}
$$

In terms of horsepower,

$$
P = \frac{1.994 \times 10^5}{550} = 362.5\ \mathrm{hp}
\qquad [8.46]
$$

Thus, to satisfy the constraint on rate of climb, the power must be

$$
P \geq 362.5\ \mathrm{hp}
\qquad [8.47]
$$

The third constraint on $T/W$ (or $P/W$) is the maximum velocity $V_{max}$. The requirements stipulate $V_{max} = 250\ \mathrm{mi/h} = 366.7\ \mathrm{ft/s}$ at midcruise weight. The altitude for the specified $V_{max}$ is not stated. However, the requirements call for a pressurized cabin, and we can safely assume that an altitude of 20,000 ft would be comfortable for the pilot and passengers. Therefore, we assume that the specified $V_{max}$ is associated with level flight at 20,000 ft. In level flight, $T = D$, and the drag $D$ is given by Eq. (5.12)

$$
T = D = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_{D,0} + \frac{2KS}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}\left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^2
\qquad [5.12]
$$

Couching Eq. (5.12) in terms of the thrust-to-weight ratio, we have

$$
\frac{T}{W} = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 \frac{C_{D,0}}{W/S} + \frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}\frac{W}{S}
\qquad [8.48]
$$

Since the requirements stipulate $V_{max}$ *at midcruise weight*, the value of $W$ that appears in Eq. (8.48) is less than the gross takeoff weight. To return to our weight estimates in Section 8.3, $W_2$ and $W_3$ are the weights at the beginning and end of cruise, respectively. We have, from Section 8.3.2,

$$
\frac{W_2}{W_0} = \frac{W_1}{W_0}\frac{W_2}{W_1} = (0.97)(0.985) = 0.955
$$

Hence,

$$
W_2 = 0.955W_0 = 0.955(5{,}158) = 4{,}926\ \mathrm{lb}
$$

At midcruise (defined here as when one-half of the fuel needed to cover the full cruise range is consumed), we have for the midcruise weight $W_{MC}$

$$
W_{MC} = W_2 - \frac{1}{2}(W_2 - W_3)
$$

or

$$
\frac{W_{MC}}{W_2} = \frac{1}{2}\left(1 + \frac{W_3}{W_2}\right)
\qquad [8.49]
$$