# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

From Eq. (5.112),

$$
V_{(R/C)_{\max}}=\left\{\frac{(T/W)(W/S)}{3\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}\left[1+\sqrt{1+\frac{3}{(L/D)_{\max}^2(T/W)^2}}\right]\right\}^{1/2}
$$

$$
=\left[\frac{(T/W)(W/S)Z}{3\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}\right]^{1/2}
=\left[\frac{(0.379)(76.84)(2.0488)}{3(0.002377)(0.015)}\right]^{1/2}
= 747.36\ \text{ft/s}
$$

This result and that from the graphical solution agree very well.

*Comment:* It is conventional in aeronautics to quote rate of climb in units of feet per minute. In the above calculations, we have quoted rate of climb in the consistent units of feet per second, because those are the units that follow directly from the physical equations. Of course, the conversion is trivial, and we note that from the above results at sea level,

$$
(R/C)_{\max}=179.86\ \text{ft/s}=10,792\ \text{ft/min}
$$

We should note that a rate of climb on the order of 10,000 ft/min is quite high for a conventional subsonic executive jet transport. The calculated value of 10,792 ft/min is due mainly to the relatively high thrust-to-weight ratio for our sample airplane. For our sample airplane, the Gulfstream IV $(T/W = 0.3795)$, whereas for more typical subsonic jet transports, the values of $T/W$ are on the order of 0.25. Clearly, for the worked examples in this chapter, we are dealing with a "hot" airplane. Also, note that the above calculation shows that this maximum rate of climb is achieved at a flight velocity of 747.36 ft/s = 510 mi/h. This means that the airplane must already be flying at high speed at sea level to achieve the calculated $(R/C)_{\max}$. In actual practice, the airplane is at sea level at takeoff, and it enters its climb path at a much lower velocity than 510 mi/h. For example, at sea level the stalling velocity (from Example 5.12) is $V_{\text{stall}} = 164.5$ ft/s. This value was calculated for flaps fully deflected for landing. For takeoff, the flaps are only partially deployed to reduce the drag due to the flaps, and hence $(C_L)_{\max}$ is smaller. From Table 5.3, we choose $(C_L)_{\max}/\cos\Lambda = 2.1$ for takeoff, rather than the value of 2.7 used in Example 5.12 for landing. This increases $V_{\text{stall}}$ to $(164.5)(2.7/2.1)^{1/2} = 187$ ft/s. If we assume that a safe takeoff velocity is $1.2V_{\text{stall}}$, then the airplane is flying at a velocity of 224 ft/s, or about 153 mi/h at takeoff. From Fig. 5.37, the unaccelerated rate of climb achievable by an airplane at this velocity is only 60 ft/s, or 3,600 ft/min. This value is a much more realistic estimate of the climb performance at sea level than the calculated value of $(R/C)_{\max}$. It is also more consistent with the data in Ref. 36 which quotes for the Gulfstream IV a sea-level rate of climb of 4,000 ft/min.

## DESIGN CAMEO

Once again we call attention to the effect of the velocity variation of $T_A$ on the performance of the airplane. If we take into account this variation, the answer from Problem 5.20a gives the following results at sea level:

$$
(R/C)_{\max}=5,028\ \text{ft/min}
$$

$$
V_{(R/C)_{\max}}=440\ \text{ft/s}
$$

These are to be compared with $(R/C)_{\max} = 10,792$ ft/min and $V_{(R/C)_{\max}} = 747.36$ ft/s obtained in Example 5.13, which assumes that $T_A$ is constant with velocity. Clearly, in the preliminary design process for a turbofan-powered airplane, it is essential to take into account the velocity variation of $T_A$.