# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

considerably higher $(c_l)_{\max}$ than a plain flap. Single-slotted flaps are in common use on light, general aviation airplanes.

6. *The double-slotted flap.* Here, the flap is divided into two segments, each with a slot, as sketched in Fig. 5.29e. If one slot is good, two are even better, as indicated by the slight increase in $(c_l)_{\max}$ shown in Fig. 5.28. This benefit is achieved at the cost of increased mechanical complexity.

7. *The double-slotted flap in combination with a leading-edge slat.* There is a mutual benefit to be obtained by employing both leading- and trailing-edge devices in combination on the same airfoil. The corresponding increase in $(c_l)_{\max}$ is shown in Fig. 5.28.

8. *Addition of boundary layer suction.* The low-energy boundary layer flow over the top surface of the airfoil is the culprit, in combination with the adverse pressure gradient, which causes flow separation and hence stall. By mechanically sucking away a portion of the boundary layer through small holes or slots in the top surface of the airfoil, flow separation can be delayed. This can lead to substantial increases in $(c_l)_{\max}$, as shown in Fig. 5.28. However, the increased mechanical complexity and cost of this device, along with the power requirements on the pumps, diminish its attractiveness as a design option. Active boundary layer suction has not yet been used on standard, production airplanes. It remains in the category of an advanced technology item.

Several types of high-lift devices not shown in Fig. 5.28 are sketched in Fig. 5.29f to i. A triple-slotted flap is shown in Fig. 5.29f. This design is used on several commercial transports with high wing loadings; the Boeing 747 shown in Fig. 1.34 is a case in point. An airfoil equipped with leading-edge devices and a triple-slotted flap generates about the ultimate in high $(c_l)_{\max}$ associated with purely mechanical high-lift systems. However, it is also almost the ultimate in mechanical complexity. For this reason, in the interest of lower design and production costs, recent airplane designs have returned to simpler mechanisms. For example, the Boeing 767 has single-slotted outboard flaps and double-slotted inboard flaps.

A Fowler flap is sketched in Fig. 5.29g. We have mentioned the Fowler flap before, in Fig. 1.23. The Fowler flap, when deployed, not only deflects downward, hence increasing the effective camber, but also translates or tracks to the trailing edge of the airfoil, hence increasing the exposed wing area with a further increase in lift. Today, the concept of the Fowler flap is combined with the double-slotted and triple-slotted flaps. The triple-slotted flaps on a Boeing 747, mentioned earlier, are also Fowler flaps.

A leading-edge flap is illustrated in Fig. 5.29h. Here, the leading edge pivots downward, increasing the effective camber. Unlike the leading-edge slat shown in Fig. 5.29c, the leading-edge flap is sealed, with no slot.

A Kruger flap is shown in Fig. 5.29i. This is essentially a leading-edge slat which is thinner, and which lies flush with the bottom surface of the airfoil when not deployed. Hence, it is suitable for use with thinner airfoils.

The effect of slats and flaps on the lift curve is shown schematically in Fig. 5.30. In Fig. 5.30a to c, the lift curve labeled *unflapped airfoil* pertains to no flap deflection at either the leading or trailing edge—it represents the lift curve for the basic airfoil itself, with no high-lift device included. The angle of attack $\alpha$ in Fig. 5.30a to c