PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## 5.15.2 More on Range

The simplest way to think about range is in terms of pounds of fuel consumed per mile. The smaller the number of pounds of fuel consumed per mile, the larger the distance the airplane can fly, that is, the larger the range. Let us examine what dictates this parameter, first for a propeller-driven airplane and then for a jet airplane.

**Propeller-Driven Airplane** The pounds of fuel consumed per mile for a propeller-driven airplane are given by

$$
\frac{\text{lb of fuel consumed}}{\text{mi}}=\frac{(\mathrm{SFC})HP_R}{\eta_{pr}V_\infty}
$$

[5.174]

where $V_\infty$ is in miles per hour. Clearly, from Eq. (5.174) the *minimum* pounds of fuel consumed per mile are obtained with *minimum* $HP_R/V_\infty$. Return to Fig. 5.47a. Imagine a straight line drawn from the origin to any arbitrary point on the power required curve (and consider the units of power to be horsepower). The slope of such a line is $HP_R/V_\infty$. The minimum value of this slope occurs when the straight line is tangent to the $HP_R$ curve; this tangent point is denoted by point 3 in Fig. 5.47a. Therefore, point 3 corresponds to the conditions for maximum range for a propeller-driven airplane. Since $P_R=T_RV_\infty$, then

$$
\frac{HP_R}{V_\infty}\propto T_R
$$

and therefore minimum $HP_R/V_\infty$ corresponds to minimum $T_R$. From Section 5.3.2, this corresponds to flight at maximum $L/D$. This is also the flight condition for point 2 in Fig. 5.47b. Therefore, point 3 in Fig. 5.47a corresponds to the same flight velocity as point 2 in Fig. 5.47b. As itemized on Fig. 5.47, the flight conditions for maximum range for a propeller-driven airplane are the same as those for maximum endurance for a jet-propelled airplane.

**Jet-Propelled Airplane** The pounds of fuel consumed per mile for a jet airplane are given by

$$
\frac{\text{lb of fuel consumed}}{\text{mi}}=\frac{(\mathrm{TSFC})T_R}{V_\infty}
$$

[5.175]

where $V_\infty$ is in miles per hour. From Eq. (5.175), the *minimum* pounds of fuel consumed per mile are obtained with *minimum* $T_R/V_\infty$. Return to Fig. 5.47b. Imagine a straight line drawn from the origin to any arbitrary point on the thrust required curve. The slope of such a line is $T_R/V_\infty$. The minimum value of this slope occurs when the straight line is tangent to $T_R$; this tangent point is denoted by point 4 in Fig. 5.47b. Therefore, point 4 corresponds to the conditions for maximum range for a jet-propelled airplane. Furthermore, the aerodynamic condition that holds at point 4