# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

sweep angles in a flow with the same supersonic free-stream Mach number. The Mach angle $\mu$ is given by $\mu = \Arcsin \, (1/M_\infty)$. In Fig. 2.30a, the wing leading edge is swept inside the Mach cone, that is, $\Lambda > \mu$. For this case, the component of $M_\infty$ perpendicular to the leading edge is subsonic; hence, the swept wing is said to have a *subsonic leading edge*. For the wing in supersonic flight, there is a weak shock that emanates from the apex, but there is *no* shock attached elsewhere along the wing leading edge. In contrast, in Fig. 2.30b, the wing leading edge is swept outside the Mach cone, that is, $\Lambda < \mu$. For this case, the component of $M_\infty$ perpendicular to the leading edge is supersonic; hence the swept wing is said to have a *supersonic leading edge*. For this wing in supersonic flight, there will be a shock wave attached along the entire leading edge. A swept wing with a subsonic leading edge behaves somewhat as a wing at subsonic speeds, although the actual free-stream Mach number is supersonic. That is, the top and bottom surfaces of the wing can communicate with each other in the vicinity of the leading edge, just as occurs in a purely subsonic flow. A swept wing with a supersonic leading edge, with its attached shock along the leading edge, behaves somewhat as a supersonic flat plate at the angle of attack. That is, the top and bottom surfaces of the wing do not communicate with each other. For these reasons, the aerodynamic properties of the two swept wings shown in Fig. 2.30 are different.

There is no convenient engineering formula for the rapid calculation of the lifting properties of a swept wing in supersonic flow. Most companies and laboratories use computational fluid dynamic techniques to calculate the pressure distribution over the wing, and then they find the lift by integrating the pressure distribution over the surface, taking the component of the resultant force perpendicular to the relative wind. In lieu of such detailed numerical calculations, Raymer (Ref. 25) suggests the use of a series of charts prepared by the U.S. Air Force for quick, design-oriented calculations for swept wings. A sampling of these charts is given in Fig. 2.31, one each for the six different wing planforms shown in the figure. Each planform corresponds to a different taper ratio, denoted by $\lambda$ at the top of each chart. In Fig. 2.31, $\Lambda_{LE}$ is the leading-edge sweep angle, $\beta = \sqrt{M_\infty^2 - 1}$, and $C_{N_\alpha}$ is the slope of the *normal force coefficient* with angle of attack $\alpha$. For ordinary supersonic cruising flight, we can readily assume that the normal force coefficient $C_N$, is representative of the lift coefficient $C_L$, that is, $C_L \approx C_N$. The reason for this is as follows. The dynamic pressure is given by

$$
q_\infty = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 = \frac{1}{2}\gamma p_\infty \left(\frac{\rho_\infty}{\gamma p_\infty}\right) V_\infty^2
$$

$$
= \frac{1}{2}\gamma p_\infty \frac{V_\infty^2}{a_\infty^2} = \frac{1}{2}\gamma p_\infty M_\infty^2
\qquad [2.23]
$$

Equation (2.23) shows that $q_\infty \propto M_\infty^2$, and hence the dynamic pressure can be large at supersonic Mach numbers. For an airplane cruising at supersonic speeds in steady level flight, the lift is equal to the weight

$$
L = W = q_\infty S C_L
$$