406

P.A R T 3 • Airplane Design

10% increase in the gross weight. This is a clear demonstration of the importance of weight in airplane design. For our example, 1 lb saved in any manner—payload reduction, reduced structural weight, reduced fuel weight, etc.—results in a 4.525-lb reduction in overall gross weight. It is easy to see why aeronautical engineers are so weight-conscious.

We also note that in our calculation of $W_0$ we have assumed that $W_e/W_0$ is independent of $W_0$, that is, independent of the gross weight of the airplane. This assumption was based on previous piston-engine airplanes, as shown in Fig. 8.1, where we chose $W_e/W_0 = 0.62$, independent of $W_0$. This is not usually the case for most classes of aircraft; in general, $W_e/W_0$ is a function of $W_0$. Indeed, Raymer (Ref. 25) gives empirical equations for this function for 13 different classes of aircraft. When $W_e/W_0$ is treated as a function of $W_0$, then the calculation of $W_0$ from Eq. (8.4) becomes an iteration. First, $W_0$ has to be assumed. Then $W_e/W_0$ is obtained for this assumed $W_0$. Next, a new value of $W_0$ is calculated from Eq. (8.4). This new value of $W_0$ is then used to estimate a new value of $W_e/W_0$, and the calculation of $W_0$ from Eq. (8.4) is repeated. This iteration is continued until convergence is obtained. In our calculation above, an iterative process was not required because we assumed that $W_e/W_0$ was a fixed value.

Finally, let us calculate the fuel weight; this will become important later in sizing the fuel tanks. From Eq. (8.20), $W_f/W_0 = 0.159$. Hence,

$$
W_f = \frac{W_f}{W_0} W_0 = (0.159)(5,158) = 820\ \text{lb}
$$

The weight of aviation gasoline is 5.64 lb/gal. Hence, the capacity of the fuel tank (or tanks) should be

$$
\text{Tank capacity} = \frac{820}{5.64} = 145.4\ \text{gal}
$$

## 8.4 ESTIMATION OF THE CRITICAL PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS

We now move to pivot point 3 in Fig. 7.3, namely, an estimation of the critical performance parameters $(C_L)_{\max}$, $L/D$, $W/S$, and $T/W$. These parameters are dictated by the requirements given in Section 8.2; that is, they will be determined by such aspects as maximum speed, range, ceiling, rate of climb, stalling speed, landing distance, and takeoff distance.

### 8.4.1 Maximum Lift Coefficient

This is the stage in the design process where we make an initial choice for the airfoil shape for the wing. Historically, general aviation airplanes have employed the NACA four-digit, five-digit, and 6-series airfoil sections—the laminar-flow series.