166

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

or

$$
[c_t] = \frac{\text{N}}{\text{N}\cdot \text{s}} = \frac{1}{\text{s}}
$$

However, analogous to the case of the piston engine, the thrust specific fuel consumption (TSFC) has been conventionally defined using the inconsistent time unit of hour instead of second. To emphasize this difference, we will use the symbol TSFC for the thrust specific fuel consumption in inconsistent units. Hence, by definition,

$$
[\mathrm{TSFC}] = \frac{\mathrm{lb}}{\mathrm{lb}\cdot \mathrm{h}} = \frac{1}{\mathrm{h}}
$$

## 3.4.1 Variations of Thrust and Specific Fuel Consumption with Velocity and Altitude

The thrust generated by a turbojet is given by Eq. (3.16). Questions: When the engine is mounted on an airplane flying through the atmosphere, how does the thrust vary with flight velocity? With altitude? Some hints regarding the answers can be obtained by examining the thrust equation given by Eq. (3.16). First, consider the mass flow of air $\dot{m}_{air}$. The mass flow of air entering the inlet (location 1 in Fig. 3.10a) is $\rho_\infty A_1 V_\infty$, where $A_1$ is the cross-sectional area of the inlet. As $V_\infty$ is increased, $V_j$ stays essentially the same (at least to first order); the value of $V_j$ is much more a function of the internal compression and combustion processes taking place inside the engine than it is of $V_\infty$. Hence, the difference $V_j - V_\infty$ tends to decrease as $V_\infty$ increases. From Eq. (3.16), with $V_\infty$ increasing but $V_j$ staying about the same, the value of $T$ is decreased. These two effects tend to cancel in Eq. (3.16), and therefore we might expect the thrust generated by a turbojet to be only a weak function of $V_\infty$. This is indeed the case, as shown in Fig. 3.13 based on data from Hesse and Mumford (Ref. 40). Here the thrust for a typical small turbojet is given as a function of flight Mach number for two altitudes, sea level and 40,000 ft, and for three different throttle settings (denoted by different compressor rpm values) at each altitude. Note that, especially at altitude, $T$ is a very weak function of Mach number. Hence, to a first approximation, in this book we consider that, for a turbojet flying at *subsonic speeds*,

$$
T \text{ is reasonably constant with } V_\infty
$$

A typical variation of TSFC for the same small turbojet is given in Fig. 3.14, also based on data from Ref. 40. Here we see a general trend where TSFC increases monotonically with flight Mach number. Note that, at low speed, the TSFC is about 1 lb of fuel/(lb of thrust/h)—an approximate value used frequently in airplane performance analyses. However, at high velocities, the increase in TSFC should be taken into account. Based on the data shown in Fig. 3.14, we write as a reasonable approximation, for $M_\infty < 1$,

$$
\mathrm{TSFC} = 1.0 + kM_\infty
\tag{3.18}
$$