38

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

configuration; the leading edges were swept back by $20^\circ$. Of course, the idea had nothing to do with high-speed flight at that time; the delta configuration had some stability and control advantages associated with its favorable center-of-gravity location. However, when Busemann introduced his swept-wing ideas in 1935, Lippisch and his colleagues knew they had a potential high-speed wing in their delta configuration. Lippisch continued his research on delta wings during the war, using small models in German supersonic wind tunnels. By the end of the war, he was starting to design a delta wing ramjet-powered fighter. Along with the German swept-wing data, this delta wing technology was transferred to the United States after the war; it served as the basis for an extended wind tunnel test program on delta wings at NACA Langley Memorial Laboratory. All this long-term aerodynamic research in Germany on swept and delta wings ironically did not help Germany in the outcome of the war. However, as stated by Miller and Sawers (Ref. 14), it was a "gift to the victors."

The first practical delta wing airplane was the Convair F-102 (Fig. 1.31). The design of this aircraft is an interesting story in its own right—a story of the interplay between design and research, and between industry and NACA. The F-102 was designed as a supersonic airplane. However, much to the embarrassment and frustration of the Convair engineers, the prototype F-102 being tested at Edwards Air Force Base during October 1953 and then again in January 1954 exhibited poor performance and was unable to go supersonic. At the same time, Richard Whitcomb at NACA Langley was conducting wind tunnel tests on his "area rule" concept, which called for the cross-sectional area of the fuselage to be reduced in the vicinity of the wing. By so doing, the transonic drag was substantially reduced. The Convair engineers quickly adopted this concept on a new prototype of the F-102, and it went supersonic on its second flight. The area-rule design feature is clearly seen in Fig. 1.31; at the top is the original design of the F-102, and at the bottom is the area-rule design. The "Coke bottle shape" of the fuselage caused by area rule is clearly evident. Convair went on to produce 975 F-102s; the practical delta wing airplane was finally a reality.

The area rule was one of the most important technical developments during the era of jet-propelled airplanes. Today, almost all transonic and supersonic aircraft incorporate some degree of area rule. For his work on the area rule, Whitcomb received the Collier Trophy, the highest award given in the field of aeronautics.

One of the most tragic stories in the annals of airplane design occurred in the early 1950s. Keying on England's early lead in jet propulsion, de Havilland Aircraft Company designed and flew the first commercial jet transport—the de Havilland Comet (Fig. 1.32). Powered by four de Havilland Ghost jet engines, the Comet carried 36 passengers for 2,000 mi at a speed of 460 mi/h, cruising at relatively high altitudes near or above 30,000 ft. The passenger cabin was pressurized; indeed, the Comet was the first pressurized airplane to fly for extended periods at such high altitudes. Inasmuch as good airplane design is an evolutionary process based on preceding aircraft, the de Havilland designers had little precedent on which to base the structural design of the pressurized fuselage. The Comet entered commercial service with BOAC (a forerunner of British Airways today) in 1952. However, in 1954, three Comets disintegrated in flight, and the airplane was quickly withdrawn from service. The problem was later found to be structural failure of the fuselage while pressurized. De Havilland used countersunk rivets in the construction of the