458

PART 3 • Airplane Design

## 8.8.7 Interim Summary

We have just finished a performance analysis of the airplane shown in the configuration layout in Fig. 8.27. We have now completed pivot point 6 in Fig. 7.3. *Question:* Does our airplane design meet or exceed the requirements? *Answer:* Emphatically yes. In every respect, the design outperforms the specifications, in some cases by a considerable margin. An obvious reason for this excellent performance is the considerably reduced gross weight of 4,100 lb compared to the original estimate of 5,158 lb. Since the engine was originally sized to meet the specifications with the larger weight, the lighter airplane has a smaller power loading, namely 11.39 lb/hp compared to the earlier value of 14.3 lb/hp. Our lighter airplane is simply a “hot” airplane compared to the earlier stage of our design. For this reason, returning to Fig. 7.3, there is no need to iterate the design to obtain better performance.

However, moving to pivot point 7 in Fig. 7.3, we ask the question: Is it the *best* design? We do not know the answer to this question without carrying out the optimization study called for by pivot point 7. But it is virtually certain that we do *not* have the *best* design for the specifications given in Section 8.2. Indeed, our airplane appears to be greatly overdesigned for the given specifications. In particular, with the lighter gross weight of 4,100 lb, we can choose a less powerful, more light weight engine and still meet the specifications. In such a case, the airplane will be less expensive, and hence a “better” design. So pivot point 7 is absolutely critical. The performance parameter space needs to be examined (various choices of $W/S$, $W/P$, etc.) in order to find the *best* airplane that will meet the specifications. To carry out such an optimization here is beyond our scope. However, in terms of the design philosophy discussed in Chapter 7, you need to appreciate the importance of pivot point 7.

## 8.9 SUMMARY

The purpose of this chapter has been to illustrate the design philosophy discussed in Chapter 7, especially as highlighted in Fig. 7.3. We chose to design a propeller-driven airplane in this chapter. However, the general philosophy of design is the same, whatever type of airplane is considered—propeller-driven, jet-powered, subsonic, or supersonic. Since Chapters 5 and 6 used a turbofan-powered airplane as an example, this chapter provides a balance by dealing with a propeller-driven airplane.

We end this chapter with two short design case histories of perhaps the most important propeller-driven airplanes ever designed—the 1903 *Wright Flyer* and the Douglas DC-3 from the 1930s. One of the purposes of these case histories is to illustrate the role of the design philosophy as constructed in Chapter 7 in the design of these historic aircraft.

## 8.10 DESIGN CASE STUDY: THE WRIGHT FLYER

This section is an adjunct to Section 1.2.2, where the design features of the *Wright Flyer* are summarized and where the attributes of Wilbur and Orville Wright as the first