70

PART I • Preliminary Considerations

Since the moment on the airfoil is due mainly to the surface pressure distribution, the variation of $c_m$ with Mach number will qualitatively resemble the variation of $c_l$ shown in Fig. 2.10; hence no more details will be given here.

Although a two-dimensional airfoil has been used in this section to illustrate the variation of the aerodynamic coefficients with $\alpha$, Re, and $M_\infty$, these results are qualitatively representative of the variations of $C_L$, $C_D$, and $C_M$ for three-dimensional aerodynamic bodies. We will discuss the aerodynamics of three-dimensional shapes in subsequent sections. Also, the book by Abbott and Von Doenhoff (Ref. 19) is the definitive source of NACA airfoil data; it is recommended that you own a copy.

### Example 2.3

For the NACA 2412 airfoil in Fig. 2.6, calculate the lift-to-drag ratios at $\alpha = 0^\circ$, $6^\circ$, and $12^\circ$. Assume $\mathrm{Re} = 8.9 \times 10^6$.

**Solution**

From Fig. 2.6a, at $\alpha = 0^\circ$, $c_l = 0.25$. From Fig. 2.6b, at $c_l = 0.25$, we have $c_d = 0.006$. Hence,

$$
\frac{c_l}{c_d} = \frac{0.25}{0.006} = 41.7 \qquad \text{at } \alpha = 0^\circ
$$

For $\alpha = 6^\circ$, $c_l = 0.85$ and $c_d = 0.0076$. Hence,

$$
\frac{c_l}{c_d} = \frac{0.85}{0.0076} = 111.8 \qquad \alpha = 6^\circ
$$

For $\alpha = 12^\circ$, $c_l = 1.22$ and $c_d = 0.0112$. Hence,

$$
\frac{c_l}{c_d} = \frac{1.22}{0.0112} = 109 \qquad \alpha = 12^\circ
$$

*Note:* (1) The values of $L/D$ first increase with an increase in $\alpha$, reach a maximum value at some angle of attack (in this case, somewhere between $6^\circ$ and $12^\circ$), and then decrease as $\alpha$ is further increased.

(2) The values of $L/D$ for *airfoils* can exceed 100, as shown here. This is a large $L/D$ ratio. However, for finite wings and complete airplane configurations, the maximum values of $L/D$ are much smaller, typically in the range of 10 to 20, for reasons to be discussed later.

## 2.6 THE AERODYNAMIC CENTER

We have already defined the aerodynamic center as that point on a body about which the moments are independent of the angle of attack; that is, $C_{M_{a.c.}}$ is constant over the practical range of angle of attack. At first thought, such a concept intuitively seems strange. How can such a point exist, and how can it be found? We address these questions in this section.

Consider the front portion of an airfoil sketched in Fig. 2.14. We choose the lift and moment system on the airfoil to be specified by $L$ and $M_{c/4}$ acting at the quarter-chord location, as shown in Fig. 2.14. (Recall from Section 2.3 and Fig. 2.5 that the resultant aerodynamic force can be visualized as acting through any point