326

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

the load factor is a function of $\phi$ via Eq. (6.6), written as

$$
n=\frac{1}{\cos\phi}
$$

[6.12]

at any given velocity, the maximum possible load factor for a sustained level turn is constrained by the maximum thrust available.

This maximum possible load factor $n_{\max}$ can be calculated as follows. From the drag polar, the drag is

$$
D=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S\left(C_{D,0}+K\,C_L^2\right)
$$

[6.13]

For a level turn, the thrust equals the drag.

$$
T=D
$$

[6.14]

Also,

$$
L=nW=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L
$$

or

$$
C_L=\frac{2nW}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S}
$$

[6.15]

Substituting Eqs. (6.14) and (6.15) into Eq. (6.13), we have

$$
T=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S\left[C_{D,0}+K\left(\frac{2nW}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S}\right)^2\right]
$$

[6.16]

Solving Eq. (6.16) for $n$ (the details are left for a homework problem), we have

$$
n=\left[\frac{\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}{K(W/S)}\left(\frac{T}{W}-\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2\frac{C_{D,0}}{W/S}\right)\right]^{1/2}
$$

[6.17]

Equation (6.17) gives the load factor (hence $\phi$) for a given velocity and thrust-to-weight ratio. The maximum value of $n$ is obtained by inserting $T=T_{\max}$, or $(T/W)_{\max}$, into Eq. (6.17).

$$
n_{\max}=\left\{\frac{\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}{K(W/S)}\left[\left(\frac{T}{W}\right)_{\max}-\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2\frac{C_{D,0}}{W/S}\right]\right\}^{1/2}
$$

[6.18]

Hence, although Eqs. (6.9) and (6.11) show that $R$ and $\omega$ depend only on $V_\infty$ and $n$, the load factor cannot be any arbitrary value. Rather, for a given $V_\infty$, $n$ can only range between

$$
1\leq n \leq n_{\max}
$$

where $n_{\max}$ is given by Eq. (6.18). Hence, there is a constraint on $n$ imposed by the maximum available thrust. Moreover, from Eq. (6.18), $n_{\max}$ is dictated by the design parameters $W/S$, $T/W$, $C_{D,0}$, and $K$ as well as the altitude (via $\rho_\infty$).