222

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

Note from Eq. (5.42) that when the airplane is flying at $(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}$, it is flying *more slowly* than when it is flying at $(L/D)_{\max}$; indeed, it is flying at a velocity 0.76 times that necessary for maximum $L/D$.

Consider $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$. Analogous to the above derivation, we find that for the maximum value of $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$,

$$
C_{D,0} = 3KC_L^2
$$

[5.43]

From Eq. (5.43), *when $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ is a maximum value, the zero-lift drag equals 3 times the drag due to lift.* Furthermore, the value of $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ is given by

$$
\left(\frac{C_L^{1/2}}{C_D}\right)_{\max} = \frac{3}{4}\left(\frac{1}{3KC_{D,0}^3}\right)^{1/4}
$$

[5.44]

The velocity at which $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ is achieved is

$$
V_{(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}} = \left(\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\sqrt{\frac{3K}{C_{D,0}}}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}
$$

[5.45]

The derivation of Eqs. (5.43) to (5.45) is left to you as a homework problem. Comparing Eq. (5.45) with (5.22) for $V_{(L/D)_{\max}}$, we see that

$$
V_{(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}} = 3^{1/4}V_{(L/D)_{\max}}
$$

or

$$
V_{(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}} = 1.32V_{(L/D)_{\max}}
$$

[5.46]

Note from Eq. (5.46) that when the airplane is flying at $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$, it is flying *faster* than when it is flying at $(L/D)_{\max}$; indeed, it is flying at a velocity 1.32 times that necessary for maximum $L/D$.

For the Gulfstream IV in Example 5.1, the variations of $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$ and $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ with velocity are easily obtained from the individual values of $C_L$ and $C_D$ tabulated in Table 5.1. The graphical results are shown in Fig. 5.11, along with the previous results for $C_L/C_D$ (which is the same as $L/D$). The various velocities at which $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$, $C_L/C_D$, and $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ become maximum values are identified in Fig. 5.11. We can clearly see that

$$
V_{(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}} < V_{(C_L/C_D)_{\max}} < V_{(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}}
$$