# POSTFACE

At the end of *Skunk Works* (Ref. 68), Ben Rich, vice president of Lockheed and director of the Skunk Works from 1975 to 1991, has the following to say:

> In my forty years at Lockheed I worked on twenty-seven different airplanes. Today’s young engineer will be lucky to build even one. The life cycle of a military airplane is far different from the development and manufacturing of anything else. Obsolescence is guaranteed because, outside of a secret, high-priority project environment like the Skunk Works, it usually takes eight to ten years to get an airplane from the drawing board into production and operational. Every combat airplane that flew in Operation Desert Storm in 1991 was at least ten to fifteen years old by the time it actually proved its worth on the battlefield, and we are now entering an era in which there may be a twenty- to thirty-year lapse between generations of military aircraft.

The purpose of this book is to present the fundamental aspects of airplane performance and to discuss and illustrate the philosophy of airplane design. However, in light of Rich’s comments, what is the likelihood that you will ever have a chance to participate in the design of a new airplane? It is a fact that the number of new airplanes designed in a given year has decreased dramatically from the literally hundreds per year in the heyday of the 1930s to a very few per year today, and this is counting the design of a new variant of an existing aircraft, such as the design of the Boeing 747-400 as distinct from the earlier 747-200 version. The reasons for this situation are straightforward. First, modern military and civilian airplanes incorporate a level of sophisticated technology that was undreamed of 50 years ago, and it takes great effort, tremendous expense, and much time to design new, high-technology airplanes. Second, the cost of a new airplane today, even after the cost of development is subtracted, is considerably more than that of 50 years ago. So it is no surprise that the number of new airplane designs today is far smaller than that of 50 years ago. Compensating for this, and perhaps as a partial consequence, the lifespan of major airplanes today is on the order of 30 years, in contrast to just a few years for the average airplane from the 1930s. An extreme example is the Boeing B-52, designed and first built in the early 1950s; today, the B-52 is still in service as the primary strategic bomber for the Air Force, and the Air Force is projecting that it will continue in service well into the twenty-first century, at least until 2035—which would be a service life of 80 years! So again we ask: What is the likelihood that you will ever get a chance to participate in the design of a new airplane?

I believe the answer is, plenty of chances. First, even though the number of major high-technology designs for new, but rather conventional civilian aircraft is small, the design activity requires more people for longer periods, hence increasing your opportunity to participate in such designs. Second, and here is some real excitement, the vistas for new, unconventional airplane designs are expanding rapidly at the time of writing. For example, a whole new class of flight vehicles—micro air

543