100

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

dominant aspect of this flow is the two vortices that are formed along the highly swept leading edges, and that trail downstream over the top of the wing. This vortex pattern is created by the following mechanism. The pressure on the bottom surface of the wing is higher than the pressure on the top surface. Thus, the flow on the bottom surface in the vicinity of the leading edge tries to curl around the leading edge from the bottom to the top. If the leading edge is relatively sharp, the flow will separate along its entire length. This separated flow curls into a primary vortex above the wing just inboard of each leading edge, as sketched in Fig. 2.33. The stream surface which has separated at the leading edge (the primary separation line $S_1$ in Fig. 2.33) loops above the wing and then reattaches along the primary attachment line (line $A$ in Fig. 2.33). The primary vortex is contained within this loop. A secondary vortex is formed underneath the primary vortex, with its own separation line, denoted by $S_2$ in Fig. 2.33, and its own reattachment line $A_2$.

Unlike many separated flows in aerodynamics, the vortex pattern over a delta wing shown in Fig. 2.33 is a friendly flow in regard to the production of lift. The vortices are strong and generally stable. They are a source of high energy, relatively high vorticity flow, and the local static pressure in the vicinity of the vortices is small. Hence, the vortices create a lower pressure on the top surface than would exist if the vortices were not there. This increases the lift compared to what it would be without the vortices. The portion of the lift due to the action of the leading-edge vortices is called the *vortex lift.* A typical variation of $C_L$ for a delta wing as a function of angle of attack is shown in Fig. 2.34 (after Ref. 18). Here, low-speed experimental data are plotted for a delta wing with an aspect ratio of 1.46. Also shown is a theoretical calculation which assumes potential flow without the leading-edge vortices; this is identified as *potential flow lift* in Fig. 2.34. The difference between the experimental data and the potential flow lift is the *vortex lift.* The vortex lift is a major contributor to the overall lift; note that in Fig. 2.34 the vortex lift is about equal to the potential flow lift in the higher angles of attack.

The lift curve in Fig. 2.34 illustrates three important characteristics of the lift of low-aspect-ratio delta wings:

1. The lift slope is small, on the order of 0.05 per degree.

2. The lift, however, continues to increase over a large range of angle of attack. In Fig. 2.34, the stalling angle of attack is about $35^\circ$. The net result is a reasonable value of $C_{L,\max}$, on the order of 1.35.

3. The lift curve is *nonlinear,* in contrast to the linear variation exhibited by conventional wings for subsonic aircraft. The vortex lift is mainly responsible for this nonlinearity.

The next time you have an opportunity to watch a delta-wing aircraft take off or land, for example, the televised landing of the space shuttle, note the large angle of attack of the vehicle. Also, this is why the Concorde supersonic transport, with its low-aspect-ratio deltalike wing, lands at a high angle of attack. In fact, the angle of attack is so high that the front part of the fuselage must be mechanically drooped upon landing in order for the pilots to see the runway.