332

PART 2 • *Airplane Performance*

Rather, the smallest turning radius will actually be that corresponding to point $A$ in Fig. 6.2, where, from the graph

$$
V_A = 445\ \text{ft/s} \qquad n_A = 3.6
$$

Hence,

$$
R_{\min}=\frac{V_A^2}{g\sqrt{n_A^2-1}}=\frac{(445)^2}{32.2\sqrt{(3.6)^2-1}}=1,778\ \text{ft}
$$

Note that the conditions for minimum turn radius are far different from those for the maximum value of $n_{\max}$; points $C$ and $A$ in Fig. 6.2 are far removed from point $B$.

## 6.2.2 Maximum Turn Rate

The thought process given for maximum turn rate parallels that given above for minimum turn radius—only the details are different. The conditions for maximum turn rate $\omega_{\max}$ are obtained by differentiating Eq. (6.11) and setting the derivative equal to zero. The details are left for a homework problem. The results are

$$
(V_\infty)_{\omega_{\max}}=\left[\frac{2(W/S)}{\rho_\infty}\right]^{1/2}\left(\frac{K}{C_{D,0}}\right)^{1/4}
\qquad [6.34]
$$

$$
n_{\omega_{\max}}=\left(\frac{T/W}{\sqrt{KC_{D,0}}}-1\right)^{1/2}
\qquad [6.35]
$$

$$
\omega_{\max}=g\sqrt{\frac{\rho_\infty}{W/S}\left[\frac{T/W}{2K}-\left(\frac{C_{D,0}}{K}\right)^{1/2}\right]}
\qquad [6.36]
$$

**Example 6.2** Calculate the maximum turning rate and the corresponding values of load factor and velocity for our Gulfstream-like airplane at sea level.

**Solution**

From Eq. (6.36),

$$
\omega_{\max}=32.2\sqrt{\frac{0.002377}{76.84}\left[\frac{0.3795}{2(0.08)}-\left(\frac{0.015}{0.08}\right)^{1/2}\right]}=0.25\ \text{rad/s}
$$

Recalling that 1 rad = $57.3^\circ$, we get

$$
\omega_{\max}=(0.25)(57.3)=14.3\ \text{deg/s}
$$

The corresponding value of $n$ is obtained from Eq. (6.35).

$$
n_{\omega_{\max}}=\left[\frac{0.3795}{\sqrt{(0.08)(0.015)}}-1\right]^{1/2}=3.16
$$