234

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## DESIGN CAMEO

In Example 5.6 above, $T_A$ was assumed to be constant with velocity—a reasonable assumption for a subsonic turbojet-powered airplane. However, the airplane treated in Example 5.6, indeed in most of the worked examples in this chapter, is patterned after the Gulfstream IV, which is powered by turbofan engines. The thrust available from a turbofan decreases with an increase in flight velocity of the airplane, as noted in Eq. (3.23). However, in the worked examples in this chapter, we assume that $T_A$ is constant with $V_\infty$ strictly for the purpose of simplicity and to allow us to highlight other aspects of airplane performance. This is not recommended for the preliminary design process for an airplane. During the design process, there are two general options for dealing with the engine:

1. The actual desired $T_A$ to accomplish the design goals is determined through an iterative process—the "rubber engine" approach wherein the desired engine characteristics evolve along with the airframe characteristics. Then the engine manufacturers are approached for the design of a new engine to meet these characteristics. Considering the expense of designing a new engine, needless to say, this approach is used only in those few cases where the need and/or market for the new airplane is so compelling as to justify such a new engine.

2. Alternatively, the new airplane design is based on existing engines. In the iterative design process, $T_A$ and other engine characteristics are known parameters, and the design is optimized around these known values. This is the design option most often taken.

If an existing engine is to be used for a new airplane design, the known precise engine characteristics (variation of $T_A$ and specific fuel consumption with velocity and altitude, etc.) should be used during the design process.

To illustrate the effect of more precise engine characteristics on airplane performance results, Problem 5.18 revisits worked Example 5.6 and assumes a variation of thrust available given by

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_{V=0}} = 0.4M_\infty^{-0.6}
$$

at sea level

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_{V=0}} = 0.222M_\infty^{-0.6}
$$

at 30,000 ft

where $(T_A)_{V=0}$ is the thrust available at sea level at zero velocity. The results for $V_{max}$ at sea level and at 30,000 ft assuming the above variations for $T_A$ are, for the answer to Problem 5.18,

At sea level: \hspace{1em} $V_{max} = 860$ ft/s

At 30,000 ft: \hspace{1em} $V_{max} = 945$ ft/s

Compare these results with $V_{max} = 1,273.6$ ft/s and 1,534.6 ft/s obtained earlier in worked Example 5.6, which assumed a constant $T_A$. Clearly, it is important to take into account the best available data for engine characteristics.

## 5.6 POWER REQUIRED

To begin, let us examine a general relation for power. Consider a force $\mathbf{F}$ acting on an object moving with velocity $\mathbf{V}$, as sketched in Fig. 5.16a. Both $\mathbf{F}$ and $\mathbf{V}$ are vectors and may have different directions, as shown in Fig. 5.16a. At some instant, the object is located at a position given by the position vector $\mathbf{r}$, as shown in Fig. 5.16b. Over a time increment $dt$, the object is displaced through the vector $d\mathbf{r}$, shown in Fig. 5.16b. The work done on the object by the force $\mathbf{F}$ acting through the displacement $d\mathbf{r}$ is $\mathbf{F} \cdot d\mathbf{r}$. Power is the time rate of doing work, or

$$
\text{Power} = \frac{d}{dt}(\mathbf{F} \cdot d\mathbf{r}) = \mathbf{F} \cdot \frac{d\mathbf{r}}{dt}
$$