CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

109

extent of laminar flow is very small, and transition usually occurs very near the leading edge—so close that we can frequently assume that the surface is completely covered with a turbulent boundary layer. The location at which transition actually occurs on the surface is a function of a number of variables; suffice it to say that the transition Reynolds number is

$$
\mathrm{Re}_{\mathrm{trans}}=\frac{\rho_\infty V_\infty x_{tr}}{\mu_\infty}\approx 350{,}000 \text{ to } 1{,}000{,}000
$$

for low-speed flows, where $x_{tr}$ is the distance of the transition point along the surface measured from the leading edge. Generally, a predicted value of $x_{tr}$ is quite uncertain. For this reason, many preliminary drag estimates simply assume that the boundary layer is turbulent starting right at the leading edge.

To return to Eq. (2.26), the analytical prediction of $c_{d,p}$, the form drag coefficient, is still a current research question. No simple equations exist for the estimation of $c_{d,p}$, nor does computational fluid dynamics always give the right answer. Instead, $c_{d,p}$ is usually found from experiment. [What really happens is that the net profile drag coefficient $c_d$ in Eq. (2.26) is measured, such as given in Fig. 2.18, and then $c_{d,p}$ can be backed out of Eq. (2.26) if a reasonable estimate of $c_f$ exists.]

At subsonic speeds below the drag-divergence Mach number, the variation of $c_d$ with Mach number is very small; indeed, for a first approximation it is reasonable to assume that $c_d$ is relatively constant across the subsonic Mach number range. This is reflected in the left-hand side of Fig. 2.11.

### Finite Wings

Consider the subsonic drag on a finite wing. This drag is more than just the profile drag. The same induced flow effects due to the wing-tip vortices that were discussed in Section 2.8.1 result in an extra component of drag on a three-dimensional lifting body. This extra drag is called *induced drag*. Induced drag is purely a pressure drag. It is caused by the wing tip vortices which generate an induced, perturbing flow field over the wing, which in turn perturbs the pressure distribution over the wing surface in such a way that the integrated pressure distribution yields an increase in drag—the induced drag $D_i$. For a high-aspect-ratio straight wing, Prandtl’s lifting line theory shows that the induced drag coefficient, defined by

$$
C_{D_i}\equiv \frac{D_i}{q_\infty S}
$$

is given by

$$
C_{D_i}=\frac{C_L^2}{\pi e AR}
\qquad [2.30]
$$

where $e$ is the span efficiency factor, given by

$$
e=\frac{1}{1+\delta}
\qquad [2.31]
$$

In Eq. (2.31), $\delta$ is calculated from lifting line theory. It is a function of aspect ratio and taper ratio and is plotted in Fig. 2.39. Note that $\delta \geq 1$, so that $e \leq 1$. Examining