# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

There are two practical constraints on propeller diameter: (1) The propeller tips must clear the ground when the airplane is on the ground, and (2) the propeller tip speed should be less than the speed of sound, or else severe compressibility effects will occur that ruin the propeller performance. At the same time, the propeller must be large enough to absorb the engine power. (Imagine a small, carnival-variety pinwheel attached to our 360-hp engine—there would be virtually no thrust and no torque on the shaft, and the engine would simply “run away.”) The power absorption by the propeller is enhanced by increasing the diameter and/or increasing the number of blades on the propeller. Two-blade propellers are common on general aviation aircraft. For the powerful combat airplanes of World War II, and the large propeller-driven commercial transports that immediately followed, three- and four-blade propellers were common.

For the purpose of initial sizing, Raymer (Ref. 25) gives an empirical relation for propeller diameter $D$ as a function of engine horsepower, as follows:

Two-blade $\qquad D = 22(HP)^{1/4}$ $\qquad$ **[8.71]**

Three-blade $\qquad D = 18(HP)^{1/4}$ $\qquad$ **[8.72]**

where $D$ is in inches. For our airplane design, we choose a two-blade, constant-speed, propeller. From Eq. (8.71), the propeller diameter is approximated as

$$
D = 22(360)^{1/4} = 95.83\ \text{in} = 8\ \text{ft}
$$

*Question:* Is this diameter too large to avoid adverse compressibility effects at the tip? Let us check the tip speed. The rated RPM (revolutions per minute) for our chosen Textron Lycoming TIO/LTIO-540-V engine is 2,600 (Ref. 36). The tip speed of the propeller when the airplane is standing still, denoted by $(V_{\text{tip}})_0$, is

$$
(V_{\text{tip}})_0 = \pi nD
$$

**[8.73]**

where $n$ is the shaft revolutions per second and $D$ is in feet. Hence,

$$
(V_{\text{tip}})_0 = \pi \frac{\text{RPM}}{60}D = \pi \left(\frac{2,600}{60}\right)(8) = 1,089\ \text{ft/s}
$$

When the maximum forward velocity of the airplane is vectorally added to $(V_{\text{tip}})_0$, we have the actual tip velocity relative to the airflow $V_{\text{tip}}$.

$$
V_{\text{tip}} = \sqrt{(V_{\text{tip}})_0^2 + V_\infty^2}
$$

**[8.74]**

The specified $V_{\max}$ is 250 mph $= 366.7$ ft/s. Hence,

$$
V_{\text{tip}} = \sqrt{(1,089)^2 + (366.7)^2} = 1,149\ \text{ft/s}
$$

**[8.75]**

The speed of sound at standard sea level is 1,117 ft/s; our propeller tip speed exceeds the speed of sound, which is not desirable.

So we have to change our initial choice of a two-blade propeller to a three-blade propeller. From Eq. (8.72)

$$
D = 18(HP)^{1/4} = 18(360)^{1/4} = 78.4\ \text{in} = 6.53\ \text{ft}
$$