# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

227

weight) of the airplane and virtually nothing to do with the power plant, the thrust available $T_A$ has almost everything to do with the power plant and virtually nothing to do with the airframe. This statement is not completely true; there is always some aerodynamic interaction between the airframe and the power plant. The installation of the power plant relative to the airframe will set up an aerodynamic interaction that affects both the thrust produced by the power plant and the drag on the airframe. For conventional, low-speed airplanes, this interaction is usually small. However, for modern transonic and supersonic airplanes, it becomes more of a consideration. And for the hypersonic airplanes of the future, airframe and propulsion integration becomes a dominant design aspect. However, for this chapter, we do not consider such interactions; instead, we consider $T_A$ to be completely associated with the flight propulsion device.

## 5.5.1 Propeller-Driven Aircraft

As described in Section 3.3.2, an aerodynamic force is generated on a propeller that is translating and rotating through the air. The component of this force in the forward direction is the thrust of the propeller. For a propeller/reciprocating engine combination, this propeller thrust is the thrust available $T_A$. For a turboprop engine, the propeller thrust is augmented by the jet exhaust, albeit by only a small amount (typically almost 5%), as described in Section 3.6. The combined propeller thrust and jet thrust is the thrust available $T_A$ for the turboprop.

The qualitative variation of $T_A$ with $V_\infty$ for propeller-driven aircraft is sketched in Fig. 5.13. The thrust is highest at zero velocity (called the *static thrust*) and decreases with an increase in $V_\infty$. The thrust rapidly decreases as $V_\infty$ approaches sonic speed; this is because the propeller tips encounter compressibility problems at high speeds, including the formation of shock waves. It is for this reason (at least to the present) that propeller-driven aircraft have been limited to low to moderate subsonic speeds.

The propeller is attached to a rotating shaft which delivers *power* from a reciprocating piston engine or a gas turbine (as in the case of the turboprop). For this reason, *power* is the more germane characteristic of such power plants rather than thrust. For example, in Ref. 36 the Teledyne Continental O-200-A four-cylinder piston engine is rated at 74.5 kW (or 100 hp) at sea level. Also in Ref. 36, the Allison T56-A-14 turboprop is rated at 3,661 ekW (equivalent kilowatts), or 4,910 ehp (equivalent horsepower); the concept of equivalent shaft power (which includes the effect of the jet thrust) is discussed in Section 3.6. What is important here is that for the analysis of the performance of a propeller-driven airplane, power is more germane than thrust. Therefore, we defer our discussion of propeller power plants to Section 5.7, which deals with power available.

However, should it be desired, the values of $T_A$ for a propeller-driven airplane can be readily obtained from the power ratings as follows. The power available from a propeller/reciprocating engine combination is given by Eq. (3.13), repeated here:

$$
P_A = \eta_{pr} P
\qquad [3.13]
$$

where $\eta_{pr}$ is the propeller efficiency and $P$ is the shaft power from the piston engine.