CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight 377

# PROBLEMS

For the BD-5J small, kit-built jet airplane described in Problem 5.1, calculate the minimum turning radius and maximum turn rate at sea level. **6.1**

For the conditions of maximum turn rate, derive the expressions for (a) the load factor, Eq. (6.35); (b) the velocity, Eq. (6.34); (c) the maximum turn rate, Eq. (6.36). **6.2**

Assume that the positive limit load factor for the BD-5J is 5. Calculate the corner velocity at sea level for the airplane. **6.3**

Derive Eq. (6.17). **6.4**

Consider an airplane flying at 620 mi/h at 35,000 ft. Calculate its energy height. **6.5**

Consider an airplane in an accelerated climb. At a given instant in this climb, the specific excess power is 120 ft/s, the instantaneous velocity is 500 ft/s, and the instantaneous rate of climb is 3,000 ft/min. Calculate the instantaneous acceleration. **6.6**

For the BD-5J (see Problem 5.1), calculate the total takeoff distance at sea level, assuming clearing a 35-ft obstacle. The height of the wing above the ground during the ground roll is 1.5 ft. Assume the runway is firm dirt with a coefficient of rolling friction of 0.04. **6.7**

For the BD-5J (see Problem 5.1), calculate the total landing distance, starting with the clearance of a 50-ft obstacle, assuming the landing weight is the same as the takeoff gross weight. The runway is firm dirt with a brakes-on coefficient of rolling friction of 0.3. The approach angle is $4^\circ$. **6.8**