CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

337

specialized case of that shown in Fig. 4.4, where $\phi = 0$ and $\epsilon = 0$. The appropriate equations of motion associated with the flight path in Fig. 4.4 are Eqs. (4.5) and (4.6). In particular, Eq. (4.6) specialized for $\phi = 0$ and $\epsilon = 0$ becomes

$$
m \frac{V_\infty^2}{R} = L - W \cos \theta
$$

[6.38]

where $r_1$ in Eq. (4.6) is replaced by $R$, as shown in Fig. 6.5. Equation (6.38) is a governing equation of motion for the flight path shown in Fig. 6.5.

Unlike the level turn discussed in Section 6.2, where we considered a *sustained* turn (constant flight properties during the level turn), in the pull-up maneuver we will focus on an *instantaneous* turn, where we are interested in the turn radius and turn rate at the instant that the maneuver is initiated. Airplanes frequently execute sustained level turns, but rarely a sustained pull-up maneuver with constant flight properties. The instantaneous pull-up is of much greater interest, and we will focus on it. Moreover, we assume the instantaneous pull-up is initiated from straight and level horizontal flight; this corresponds to $\theta = 0$ in Fig. 6.5. For this case, Eq. (6.38) becomes

$$
m \frac{V_\infty^2}{R} = L - W
$$

[6.39]

As in the case of the level turn, the pull-up performance characteristics of greatest interest are the turn radius $R$ and turn rate $\omega = d\theta/dt$. The instantaneous turn radius is obtained from Eq. (6.39) as follows.

$$
R = \frac{m V_\infty^2}{L - W} = \frac{W}{g}\frac{V_\infty^2}{L - W} = \frac{V_\infty^2}{g(L/W - 1)}
$$

[6.40]

Noting that $L/W$ is the load factor $n$, we see that Eq. (6.40) can be written as

$$
R = \frac{V_\infty^2}{g(n - 1)}
$$

[6.41]

The instantaneous turn rate (angular velocity) is given by $\omega = V_\infty/R$. Hence, from Eq. (6.41) we have

$$
\omega = \frac{g(n - 1)}{V_\infty}
$$

[6.42]

A related case is the pulldown maneuver, sketched in Fig. 6.6. Here, an airplane initially in straight and level flight is suddenly rolled to an inverted position, such that both $L$ and $W$ are pointing downward. The airplane will begin to turn downward in a flight path with instantaneous turn radius $R$ and turn rate $\omega = d\theta/dt$. For this case, the equation of motion is still Eq. (6.38) with $\theta$ taken as $180^\circ$ (see Fig. 6.6). For this