276

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

The last term in Eq. (5.115) can be written as follows, by recalling that $(L/D)_{\max}^2 = 1/(4KC_{D,0})$.

$$
\frac{6KC_{D,0}}{(T/W)Z}
=
\frac{(3/2)(T/W)\,4KC_{D,0}}{(T/W)^2 Z}
=
\frac{3T/W}{2(T/W)^2(L/D)_{\max}^2 Z}
$$

Hence, Eq. (5.115) becomes *for a jet-propelled airplane*

$$
(R/C)_{\max}
=
\left[\frac{(W/S)Z}{3\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}\right]^{1/2}
\left(\frac{T}{W}\right)^{3/2}
\left[
1-\frac{Z}{6}-\frac{3}{2(T/W)^2(L/D)_{\max}^2 Z}
\right]
\qquad [5.116]
$$

Equation (5.116) demonstrates that the thrust-to-weight ratio plays a powerful role in determining $(R/C)_{\max}$. Also note from Eqs. (5.112) and (5.116) that increasing the wing loading, everything else being equal, increases both $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ and $(R/C)_{\max}$. Indeed both $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ and $(R/C)_{\max}$ are proportional to $\sqrt{W/S}$. Finally, the effect of increasing altitude on $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ can be seen from Eq. (5.112). Assuming that $T$ decreases with increasing altitude according to $T \propto \rho_\infty$ for a turbojet or $T \propto \rho_\infty^{0.6}$ for a turbofan, Eq. (5.112) shows that $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ is increased by increasing altitude. However, Eq. (5.116) clearly shows that $(R/C)_{\max}$, being dominated by the thrust-to-weight ratio, decreases with an increase in altitude.

Consider the case of a propeller-driven airplane with the power available $\eta_{pr}P$ essentially constant. From Eq. (5.80) we can write

$$
(R/C)_{\max}=\frac{\text{maximum excess power}}{W}
\qquad [5.117]
$$

For a propeller-driven airplane with power available reasonably constant with velocity, the condition for maximum rate of climb is clearly seen in Fig. 5.36, which is an elaboration of Fig. 5.33a. For this case, maximum excess power, hence $(R/C)_{\max}$, occurs at the flight velocity for minimum power required. The conditions for minimum power required are discussed in Section 5.6.2. We have seen from Eq. (5.57) that minimum power required occurs when the airplane is flying at $(C_L^3/C_D^2)_{\max}$, and the flight velocity at which this occurs is given by Eq. (5.41). Hence, from Eq. (5.41), the flight velocity for maximum rate of climb is, *for a propeller-driven airplane*,

$$
V_{(R/C)_{\max}}
=
\left(
\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}
\sqrt{\frac{K}{3C_{D,0}}}\frac{W}{S}
\right)^{1/2}
\qquad [5.118]
$$

An expression for the maximum rate of climb can be obtained by inserting Eq. (5.118) into Eq. (5.86), and noting that $TV_\infty = P_A = \eta_{pr}P$ for a propeller-driven airplane, as follows. From Eq. (5.86),

$$
R/C
=
\frac{\eta_{pr}P}{W}
-
V_\infty
\left[
\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2\left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^{-1}
\left(
C_{D,0}
+
\frac{W}{S}\frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}
\right)
\right]
\qquad [5.119]
$$