146

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

performance and design. We examine in turn the following types of aircraft propulsion mechanisms:

1. Reciprocating engine/propeller
2. Turbojet
3. Turbofan
4. Turboprop

In each case, we are primarily concerned with two characteristics: thrust (or power) and fuel consumption. These are the two propulsion quantities that directly dictate the performance of an airplane. Also, note that missing from the above list is rocket engines. The use of rockets as the primary propulsion mechanism for airplanes is very specialized; the Bell X-1, the first airplane to fly faster than the speed of sound, and the North American X-15, the first airplane to fly at hypersonic speeds, are examples of aircraft powered by rocket engines. Rockets are also sometimes used for assisted takeoffs; JATO, which is an acronym for jet-assisted takeoff, is a bundle of small rockets mounted externally to the airplane, and it was used during and after World War II as a means of shortening the takeoff distance for some airplanes. However, we will not focus on rocket propulsion as a separate entity in this chapter.

Why do different aircraft propulsion devices exist? We have listed above four different devices, ranging from propellers connected to reciprocating engines or gas turbines, to pure turbojet engines. Of course, there is an historical, chronological thread. Beginning with Langley's *Aerodrome* and the *Wright Flyer*, the first airplanes were driven by propellers connected to internal combustion reciprocating engines. Then the invention of the jet engine in the late 1930s revolutionized aeronautics and allowed the development of transonic and supersonic airplanes. But this historical thread is not the answer to the question. For example, many airplanes today are still powered by the classical propeller/reciprocating engine combination, a full 50 years after the jet revolution. Why? There is a rather general, sweeping answer to these questions, having to do with the compromise between thrust and efficiency. This is the subject of the next section.

## 3.2 THRUST AND EFFICIENCY—THE TRADEOFF

In an elementary fashion, we can state that a propeller/reciprocating engine combination produces comparably low thrust with great efficiency, a turbojet produces considerably higher thrust with less efficiency, and a rocket engine produces tremendous thrust with poor efficiency. In this sense, there is a tradeoff—more thrust means less efficiency in this scenario. This tradeoff is the reason why all four propulsion mechanisms listed in Section 3.1 are still used today—the choice of a proper power plant for an airplane depends on what you want that airplane to do.

What is the technical reason for this tradeoff—thrust versus efficiency? First, let us consider the fundamental manner in which thrust is produced. (For a more detailed