CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight 287

**Solution**

(a) From Example 5.14, $\theta_{\min} = 3.964^\circ$ and $(V_\infty)_{\theta_{\min}} = 631.2\ \text{ft/s}$. Hence,

$$
V_v = (V_\infty)_{\theta_{\min}} \sin \theta_{\min} = 631.2 \sin 3.964^\circ = 43.6\ \text{ft/s}
$$

(b) From Example 5.4, $(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max} = 10.83$. Hence from Eq. (5.134),

$$
(V_v)_{\min} = \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty (C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}}\frac{W}{S}}
= \sqrt{\frac{2(76.84)}{(8.9068 \times 10^{-4})(10.83)^2}}
$$

$$
= \sqrt{\frac{2(76.84)}{(8.9068 \times 10^{-4})(10.83)^2}} = 38.6\ \text{ft/s}
$$

Note that, as expected, the minimum sink rate of 38.6 ft/s is smaller than the sink rate of 43.6 ft/s for minimum glide angle.

Glider pilots take advantage of the different sink rates discussed above. When flying through an upward-lifting thermal, they fly at the velocity for minimum sink rate, so as to gain the greatest altitude. Out of the thermal, they accelerate to the flight velocity for minimum glide angle in order to cover the greatest distance before encountering the next thermal.

---

## 5.11 SERVICE AND ABSOLUTE CEILINGS

How high can an airplane fly in steady, level flight? The answer is straightforward—that altitude where the maximum rate of climb is zero is the highest altitude achievable in steady, level flight. This altitude is defined as the *absolute ceiling*, that is, that altitude where $(R/C)_{\max} = 0$. A more useful quantity is the *service ceiling*, conventionally defined as that altitude where $(R/C)_{\max} = 100\ \text{ft/min}$. The service ceiling represents the *practical* upper limit for steady, level flight.

The absolute and service ceilings are denoted in Fig. 5.44, which also illustrates a simple graphical technique for finding these ceilings. In Fig. 5.44, the maximum rate of climb (on the abscissa) is plotted versus altitude (on the ordinate); for many conventional airplanes, this variation is almost (but not precisely) linear. The graphical solution for service and absolute ceilings is straightforward. For a given airplane:

1. Calculate $(R/C)_{\max}$ at a number of different altitudes. This calculation can be made by either the graphical or analytical solution discussed in Section 5.10.

2. Plot the results in the form shown in Fig. 5.44.

3. Extrapolate the curve to a value of $(R/C)_{\max} = 100\ \text{ft/min}$, denoted by point 1 in Fig. 5.44. The corresponding value of $h$ at point 1 is the service ceiling.

4. Extrapolate the curve to a value of $(R/C)_{\max} = 0$, denoted by point 2 in Fig. 5.44. The corresponding value of $h$ at point 2 is the service ceiling.

An analytical solution is also straightforward. For a jet-propelled airplane, $(R/C)_{\max}$ is given by Eq. (5.116). The free-stream density $\rho_\infty$ appears explicitly in the first term and implicitly through the altitude variation of $T$. By inserting $(R/C)_{\max} = 0$ in the left-hand side of Eq. (5.116), $\rho_\infty$ can be obtained by solving