36

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

produced before the end of the war. It was the first practical operational jet-propelled aircraft.

The era of jet-propelled aircraft is characterized by a number of design features unique to airplanes intended to fly near, at, or beyond the speed of sound. One of the most pivotal of these design features was the advent of the *swept wing*. For a subsonic airplane, sweeping the wing increases the airplane's critical Mach number, hence allowing it to fly closer to the speed of sound before encountering the large drag rise caused by the generation of shock waves somewhere on the surface of the wing. For a supersonic airplane, the wing sweep is designed such that the wing leading edge is inside the Mach cone from the nose of the fuselage; if this is the case, the component of airflow velocity perpendicular to the leading edge is subsonic (called a *subsonic leading edge*), and the resulting wave drag is not as severe as it would be if the wing were to lie outside the Mach cone. In the latter case, called the *supersonic leading edge*, the component of flow velocity perpendicular to the leading edge is supersonic, with an attendant strong shock wave generated at the leading edge. In either case, high subsonic or supersonic, an airplane with a swept wing will be able to fly faster than one with a straight wing, everything else being equal.

The concept of the swept wing for high-speed aircraft was first introduced in a public forum in 1935. At the fifth Volta Conference, convened on September 30, 1935, in Rome, Italy, the German aerodynamicist Adolf Busemann gave a paper in which he discussed the technical reasons why swept wings would have less drag at high speeds than conventional straight wings. Although several Americans were present, such as Eastman Jacobs from NACA and Theodore von Karman from Cal Tech, Busemann's idea went virtually unnoticed; it was not carried back to the United States with any sense of importance. Not so in Germany. One year after Busemann's presentation at the Volta Conference, the swept-wing concept was classified by the German Luftwaffe as a military secret. The Germans went on to produce a large bulk of swept-wing research, including extensive wind tunnel testing. They even designed a few prototype swept-wing jet aircraft. Many of these data were confiscated by the United States after the end of World War II, and made available to U.S. aircraft companies and government laboratories. Meanwhile, quite independently of this German research, Robert T. Jones, an NACA aerodynamicist, had worked out the elements of swept-wing theory toward the end of the war. Although not reinforced by definitive wind tunnel tests in the United States at that time, Jones's work served as a second source of information concerning the viability of swept wings.

In 1945, aeronautical engineers at North American Aircraft began the design of the XP-86 jet fighter; it had a straight wing. However, the XP-86 design was quickly changed to a swept-wing configuration when the German data, as well as some of the German engineers, became available after the war. The prototype XP-86 flew on October 1, 1947, and the first production P-86A flew with a $35^\circ$ swept wing on May 18, 1948. Later designated the F-86, the swept-wing fighter had a top speed of 679 mi/h, essentially Mach 0.9—a stunning speed for that day. Shown in Fig. 1.29, the North American F-86 Sabre was the world's first successful operational swept-wing aircraft. (In this author's opinion, the F-86 is asthetically one of the most beautiful airplanes ever designed.)