216

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

On a graph of $T_R$ versus velocity, the above results state that the coordinates of the minimum point on the curve are $(T_R, V_\infty) = (5{,}058\ \text{lb}, 631.2\ \text{ft/s})$. Return to Fig. 5.4, and examine the thrust required curve. The results calculated above agree with the graphical results obtained in Section 5.2 for the location of the minimum point in Fig. 5.4.

## 5.3.3 Graphical and Analytical Approaches: Some Comments

For our study of thrust required, we have employed both a graphical approach (Section 5.3.1) and an analytical approach (Section 5.3.2). These two approaches complement each other. The graphical approach gives the global picture—an instantaneous visualization of how various characteristics vary over a range of, say, velocity. For example, Fig. 5.4 shows a complete $T_R$ curve; we see at a glance how $T_R$ varies with velocity, and in particular that a minimum point exists. In Fig. 5.5, we immediately see why the $T_R$ curve in Fig. 5.4 is shaped the way it is—it is a sum of two components, one rapidly decreasing with $V_\infty$ and the other rapidly increasing with $V_\infty$. Also, it is instructive to be able to read from these curves the magnitudes of the variables. In subsequent sections we will illustrate yet another advantage of dealing with graphs for airplane performance, namely, the use of geometric constructions (such as drawing a line from the origin, tangent to the $T_R$ curve) to identify certain specific aspects of airplane performance. For these reasons, we continue to use the graphical approach in our subsequent discussions.

The great advantage of the analytical approach is that it clearly delineates the fundamental parameters of the problem. For example, in Section 5.3.2 we have shown that most of the equations involve the thrust-to-weight ratio $T_R/W$, the wing loading $W/S$, the drag polar via $C_{D,0}$ and $K$, and the lift-to-drag ratio $L/D$. We discuss further the importance of these parameters in the next section. In contrast, the graphical approach, dealing mainly with numbers rather than relationships, does not always identify the fundamental parameters. For example, in constructing the graph shown in Fig. 5.4, we know the results depend on weight $W$. However, only through the analysis do we find out the more fundamental fact that $W$ usually appears only in the form $T_R/W$ or $W/S$ [see, e.g., Eqs. (5.18), (5.21), and (5.22)]. Also, *how* one quantity varies with another quantity is shown by the equations. For example, from Eq. (5.24) we *know* that $(L/D)_{\max}$ increases inversely proportionally to the square root of the zero-lift drag coefficient $C_{D0}$ [see Eq. (5.24)]. For these reasons, we will continue to use the analytical approach (as well as the graphical approach) in our subsequent discussions.

## 5.4 THE FUNDAMENTAL PARAMETERS: THRUST-TO-WEIGHT RATIO, WING LOADING, DRAG POLAR, AND LIFT-TO-DRAG RATIO

In the equations derived in Section 5.3.2, the thrust required $T_R$ rarely appears by itself; rather, it is usually found in combination with the weight $T_R/W$ or the wing area $T_R/S$. Similarly, the weight does not occur in an isolated fashion in these equations; rather,