# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

From Appendix B, at standard sea level, $\rho_\infty = 0.002377$ slug per cubic foot (slug/ft$^3$), so

$$
q_\infty = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 = \frac{1}{2}(0.002377)(234.7)^2 = 65.45 \ \text{lb/ft}^2
$$

Thus,

$$
C_L = \frac{W}{q_\infty S} = \frac{506,000}{(65.45)(4,605)} = 1.68
$$

(b) At 30,000 ft, from Appendix B, $\rho_\infty = 8.907 \times 10^{-4}$ slug/ft$^3$ and $T_\infty = 411.86^\circ R$. The speed of sound is

$$
a_\infty = \sqrt{\gamma RT} = \sqrt{(1.4)(1,716)(411.86)} = 994.7 \ \text{ft/s}
$$

$$
V_\infty = a_\infty M_\infty = (994.7)(0.83) = 825.6 \ \text{ft/s}
$$

$$
q_\infty = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 = \frac{1}{2}(8.907 \times 10^{-4})(825.6)^2 = 303.56 \ \text{lb/ft}^2
$$

$$
C_L = \frac{W}{q_\infty S} = \frac{506,000}{(303.56)(4,605)} = 0.362
$$

*Note:* The lift coefficient at the much higher cruise velocity is much smaller than that at takeoff, even though the density at 30,000 ft is smaller than that at sea level. It is sometimes convenient to think that the lift at high speeds is mainly obtained from the high dynamic pressure; hence only a small lift coefficient is required. In turn, at low speeds the dynamic pressure is lower, and in order to keep the lift equal to the weight in steady, level flight, the low dynamic pressure must be compensated by a high lift coefficient.

## DESIGN CAMEO

As we will discuss in subsequent sections, the lift coefficient for a given aerodynamic shape is an intrinsic value of the shape itself, the inclination of the body to the free-stream direction (the angle of attack), the Mach number, and the Reynolds number. This intrinsic value has nothing to do with the weight of the body or its reference area. For example, it is common to calculate or measure the variation of lift coefficient for a given aerodynamic shape as a function of the angle of attack (for given Mach and Reynolds numbers). When we calculate the value of $C_L$ which is necessary for flight of a given vehicle at a given weight, speed, and altitude, as in Example 2.2, then we hope that such a value of $C_L$ lies within the intrinsic values associated with the vehicle shape; that is, we hope that the necessary value of $C_L$ can be obtained at some reasonable angle of attack for the vehicle. This is not guaranteed; and if such a required $C_L$ cannot be obtained, the design characteristics or design performance envelope for the flight vehicle must be modified. This is not a problem at high speeds, where the value of $C_L$ is low and is readily obtainable. However, it can be a problem at the low speeds associated with takeoff or landing, where the required value of $C_L$ is large. As we will see, this can have a major impact on airplane design, driving the designer to incorporate high-lift devices (flaps, slats, etc.) which “artificially” increase $C_L$ beyond the intrinsic values

*(continued)*