298

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

or

$$
R=\frac{2}{c_t}\sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty S}\frac{C_L^{1/2}}{C_D}\left(W_0^{1/2}-W_1^{1/2}\right)}
$$

[5.156]

Equation (5.156) is a simplified range equation for a jet-propelled airplane. From this equation, the flight conditions for maximum range for a jet-propelled airplane are

1. Fly at maximum $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$.
2. Have the lowest possible thrust specific fuel consumption.
3. Fly at high altitude, where $\rho_\infty$ is small.
4. Carry a lot of fuel.

Note that Eq. (5.153) for the range of a propeller-driven airplane does not explicitly depend on $\rho_\infty$, and hence the influence of altitude appears only implicitly via the altitude effects on $\eta_{pr}$ and $c$. However, $\rho_\infty$ appears directly in Eq. (5.156) for the range of a jet-propelled airplane, and hence the altitude has a first-order effect on range. This explains why, in part, when you fly in your jumbo jet across the Atlantic Ocean to London, you cruise at altitudes above 30,000 ft instead of skimming across the tops of the waves. Of course, Eq. (5.156), when taken in the limit of $\rho_\infty$ going to zero, shows the range going to infinity. As you might expect, this is nonsense. The highest altitude that a given airplane can reach is limited by its absolute ceiling, and flight near the absolute ceiling does not yield maximum range.

The flight conditions associated with $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ have been discussed in Section 5.4.1. It follows that the theoretical maximum range for a jet-propelled airplane is obtained by flying at the velocity where the zero-lift drag is 3 times the drag due to lift, that is, where

$$
C_{D,0}=3KC_L^2
$$

[5.43]

The velocity is given by Eq. (5.45).

$$
V_{(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}}=\left(\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\sqrt{\frac{3K}{C_{D,0}}}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}
$$

[5.45]

The value of $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ is given by Eq. (5.44).

$$
\left(\frac{C_L^{1/2}}{C_D}\right)_{\max}=\frac{3}{4}\left(\frac{1}{3KC_{D,0}^3}\right)^{1/4}
$$

[5.44]

Recall from Section 5.4.1 that the velocity for $(C_L^{1/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ is 1.32 times that for $(L/D)_{\max}$. Reflecting on the product $V_\infty(L/D)$ in Eq. (5.152), we see that for maximum range for a jet, although the airplane is flying such that $L/D$ is less than its maximum value, the higher $V_\infty$ is a compensating factor.