62

PART I • Preliminary Considerations

for the basic vehicle shape. (Such high-lift devices are discussed in Chapter 5.) Also, the required high values of $C_L$ at low speeds will influence the designer's choice of wing area for the airplane, because the required values of $C_L$ can be reduced by increasing the wing area. However, a greater wing area may adversely affect other design characteristics of the airplane.

Also, in airplane design, the value of $C_L$ does not always stand alone, a consideration by itself. In Example 2.2, we calculated that a value of $C_L = 0.362$ was required at the given high-speed condition. For the same condition, it is usually desirable for the drag coefficient $C_D$ to be as small as possible. What is usually germane is the *lift-to-drag ratio* $L/D = C_L/C_D$. This ratio is a measure of the aerodynamic efficiency of a flight vehicle; the higher the value of $L/D$, the more pounds of lift are obtained per pound of drag. We will see that the design of an airplane for high-speed cruise is driven by a consideration of the highest possible $L/D$ rather than a specific value of $C_L$ by itself.

## 2.5 LIFT, DRAG, AND MOMENT COEFFICIENTS: HOW THEY VARY

Equations (2.9$a$) to (2.9$c$) indicate that $C_L$, $C_D$, and $C_M$ for a given aerodynamic body shape vary with the angle of attack, Reynolds number, and Mach number. *Question:* What are these variations? There is no pat answer; first and foremost, the answer depends on the shape of the body itself. Whole volumes have been written about this question. In particular, the two books by Hoerner, one on drag (Ref. 17) and the other on lift (Ref. 18), have taken on the aura of Bibles in applied aerodynamics. They contain a wealth of information and data on aerodynamic coefficients for a wide variety of shapes. It is recommended that you own copies of these two books. Our purpose in this section is to address the question in a limited fashion, just to illustrate some typical variations, in order to give you a “feel” for the matter.

First, let us consider a conventional airfoil shape with positive camber (airfoil shape arched upward), such as the NACA 2412 airfoil shown at the top of Fig. 2.6$b$. This is a two-dimensional body, and it is customary in the aerodynamic literature to write the lift, drag, and moment coefficients for such two-dimensional shapes in lowercase letters, namely, $c_l$, $c_d$, and $c_m$, respectively. The variation of these coefficients with the angle of attack $\alpha$ and Reynolds number $Re$ is shown in Fig. 2.6 for the NACA 2412 airfoil. These are actual experimental data obtained by NACA in the early 1940s in a specially designed wind tunnel for measuring airfoil properties (see the historical note in Section 2.11). Figure 2.6$a$ is an answer to how the lift coefficient $c_l$ and the moment coefficient taken about the quarter-chord point $c_{m,c/4}$ vary with $\alpha$ and $Re$.

First, consider the variation of the lift coefficient with angle of attack, as shown in Fig. 2.6$a$. Note that the curve of $c_l$ versus $\alpha$ (the “lift curve”) has the generic form as sketched in Fig. 2.7. Of greatest importance, the variation of $c_l$ is essentially *linear* with $\alpha$ over most of the practical range of the angle of attack. The slope of this linear portion is called the *lift slope* and is designated by $a_0$. For thin airfoils, a theoretical value for the lift slope is $2\pi$ per radian, or 0.11 per degree. For most conventional