# CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

343

at the given velocity $V_1$. As $V_\infty$ is increased, say, to a value of $V_4$, then the maximum possible load factor $n_{\max}$ also increases, as given by point 4 in Fig. 6.7. However, $n_{\max}$ cannot be allowed to increase indefinitely. It is constrained by the structural limit load factor, given by point $B$ in Fig. 6.7.

The horizontal line $BC$ denotes the *positive limit load factor* in the $V$-$n$ diagram. The flight velocity corresponding to $B$ is designated as $V^*$. At velocities higher than $V^*$, say, $V_5$, the airplane must fly at values of $C_L$ less than $(C_L)_{\max}$ so that the positive limit load factor is not exceeded. If flight at $(C_L)_{\max}$ is obtained at velocity $V_5$, corresponding to point 5 in Fig. 6.7, then structural damage or possibly structural failure will occur. The right-hand side of the $V$-$n$ diagram, line $CD$, is a high-speed limit. At flight velocities higher than this limit (to the right of line $CD$), the dynamic pressure is higher than the design range for the airplane. This will exacerbate the consequences of other undesirable phenomena that may occur in high-speed flight, such as encountering a critical gust and experiencing destructive flutter, aileron reversal, wing or surface divergence, and severe compressibility buffeting. Any one of these phenomena in combination with the high dynamic pressure could cause structural damage or failure. The high-speed limit velocity is a *red-line speed* for the airplane; it should never be exceeded. By design, it is higher than the level flight maximum cruise velocity $V_{\max}$, determined in Chapter 5, by at least a factor of 1.2. It may be as high as the terminal dive velocity of the aircraft. The bottom part of the $V$-$n$ diagram, given by curve $AE$ and the horizontal line $ED$ in Fig. 6.7, corresponds to negative absolute angles of attack, that is, negative lift, and hence the load factors are negative quantities. Curve $AE$ defines the stall limit. (If the wing is pitched downward to a large enough negative angle of attack, the flow will separate from the bottom surface of the wing and the negative lift will decrease in magnitude; that is, the wing “stalls.”) Line $ED$ gives the negative limit load factor, beyond which structural damage will occur. Line $HI$ gives the negative ultimate load factor beyond which structural failure will occur.

For instantaneous maneuver performance, point $B$ on the $V$-$n$ diagram in Fig. 6.7 is very important. This point is called the *maneuver point*. At this point, both $C_L$ and $n$ are simultaneously at their highest possible values that can be obtained anywhere throughout the allowable flight envelope of the airplane. In turn, from Eqs. (6.52) and (6.53), this point simultaneously corresponds to the smallest possible instantaneous turn radius and the largest possible instantaneous turn rate for the airplane. The velocity corresponding to point $B$ is called the *corner velocity* and is designated by $V^*$ in Fig. 6.7. The corner velocity can be obtained by solving Eq. (6.23) for velocity, yielding

$$
V^* = \sqrt{\frac{2n_{\max}}{\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}} \frac{W}{S}}
\qquad [6.54]
$$

In Eq. (6.54), the value of $n_{\max}$ corresponds to that at point $B$ in Fig. 6.7. The corner velocity is an interesting dividing line. At flight velocities less than $V^*$, it is not possible to structurally damage the airplane due to the generation of too much lift. In contrast, at velocities greater than $V^*$, lift can be obtained that can structurally