114

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

*Induced drag:* A pressure drag due to the pressure imbalance in the drag direction caused by the induced flow (downwash) associated with the vortices created at the tips of finite wings.

*Zero-lift drag:* (Usually used in conjunction with a complete airplane configuration.) The parasite drag that exists when the airplane is at its zero-lift angle of attack, that is, when the lift of the airplane is zero. We elaborate in Section 2.9.

*Drag due to lift:* (Usually used in conjunction with a complete airplane.) That portion of the total airplane drag measured above the zero-lift drag. It consists of the *change* in parasite drag when the airplane is at an angle of attack different from the zero-lift angle, plus the induced drag from the wings and other lifting components of the airplane. We elaborate in Section 2.9.

The items summarized above are the main categories of drag. They need not be confusing as long as you keep in mind their physical source; each one is due to either skin friction or a pressure imbalance in the drag direction. As you begin to look at the airplane in greater detail, the above categories are sometimes broken down into more detailed subcategories. Here are a few such examples:

*External store drag:* An increase in parasite drag due to external fuel tanks, bombs, rockets, etc., carried as payload by the airplane, but mounted externally from the airframe.

*Landing gear drag:* An increase in parasite drag when the landing gear is deployed.

*Protuberance drag:* An increase in parasite drag due to “aerodynamic blemishes” on the external surface, such as antennas, lights, protruding rivets, and rough or misaligned skin panels.

*Leakage drag:* An increase in parasite drag due to air leaking into and out of holes and gaps in the surface. Air tends to leak in where the external pressure distribution is highest and to leak out where the external pressure distribution is lowest.

*Engine cooling drag:* An increase in parasite drag due to airflow through the internal cooling passages for reciprocating engines.

*Flap drag:* An increase in both parasite drag and induced drag due to the deflection of flaps for high-lift purposes.

*Trim drag:* The induced drag of the tail caused by the tail lift necessary to balance the pitching moments about the airplane’s center of gravity. In a conventional rear-mounted tail, the lift of the tail is frequently downward to achieve this balance. When this is the case, the wing must produce extra lift to counter the downward lift on the tail; the resulting increase in the wing induced drag is then included in the trim drag.

This list can go on almost indefinitely. A good example of the drag buildup on a typical subsonic airplane is shown in Fig. 2.41. Here, we start with a completely