294

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

where both $dW/dt$ and $\dot{W}_f$ are negative numbers because fuel is being consumed, and hence both $W$ and $W_f$ are decreasing.

Range is intimately connected with engine performance through the specific fuel consumption, defined in Chapter 3. For a propeller-driven/reciprocating engine combination, the specific fuel consumption is defined by Eq. (3.37), repeated in a slightly different form here:

$$
c \equiv -\frac{\dot{W}_f}{P}
$$

[5.144]

where $P$ is the shaft power and the minus sign is necessary because $\dot{W}_f$ is negative and $c$ is always treated as a positive quantity. For a jet-propelled airplane, the thrust specific fuel consumption is defined by Eq. (3.38), repeated in a similarly modified form here:

$$
c_t \equiv -\frac{\dot{W}_f}{T}
$$

[5.145]

where $T$ is the thrust available. However, as shown in Section 3.7, $c$ can be expressed in terms of $c_t$ and vice versa, via Eq. (3.43), repeated here:

$$
c_t = \frac{cV_\infty}{\eta_{pr}}
$$

[3.43]

where $\eta_{pr}$ is the propeller efficiency. Equation (3.43) is particularly useful for generating an equivalent “thrust” specific fuel consumption for propeller-driven airplanes. It is useful to review these matters from Section 3.7 before going further.

A general relation for the calculation of range can be obtained as follows. Consider an airplane in steady, level flight. Let $s$ denote horizontal distance covered over the ground. Assuming a stationary atmosphere (no wind), the airplane’s velocity $V_\infty$ is

$$
V_\infty = \frac{ds}{dt}
$$

or

$$
ds = V_\infty\,dt
$$

[5.146]

Return to Eq. (5.145), from which

$$
c_t = -\frac{dW_f/dt}{T}
$$

or

$$
dt = -\frac{dW_f}{c_tT}
$$

[5.147]

Substitute Eq. (5.147) into Eq. (5.146).

$$
ds = -\frac{V_\infty}{c_tT}\,dW_f
$$

[5.148]