# REFERENCES

1. Peter L. Jakab, *Visions of a Flying Machine; The Wright Brothers and the Process of Invention*, Smithsonian Press, Washington, 1990.

2. John D. Anderson, Jr., “Faster and Higher; The Quest for Speed and Altitude,” in *Milestones of Aviation*, National Air and Space Museum, Smithsonian Institution, edited by John T. Greenwood, produced by Hugh Lauter Levin Associates, Inc., New York, distributed by Macmillan Publishing Company, New York, 1989, pp. 80–146.

3. John D. Anderson, Jr., *Introduction to Flight*, 3rd ed., McGraw-Hill, New York, 1989.

4. John D. Anderson, Jr., “Sir George Cayley,” in *Great Lives from History: British and Commonwealth Series*, Salem Press, 1987.

5. C. H. Gibbs-Smith, *Sir George Cayley’s Aeronautics, 1796–1855*, Her Majesty’s Stationery Office, London, 1962.

6. J. Lawrence Pritchard, *Sir George Cayley: The Inventor of the Airplane*, Max Parrish and Company, London, 1961.

7. Charles H. Gibbs-Smith, *Aviation: An Historical Survey from Its Origins to the End of World War II*, Her Majesty’s Stationery Office, London, 1970.

8. John D. Anderson, Jr., *A History of Aerodynamics and Its Impact on Flying Machines*, Cambridge University Press, New York, 1997.

9. John D. Anderson, Jr., “The Wright Brothers: The First True Aeronautical Engineers,” in *The Wright Flyer: An Engineering Perspective*, edited by Howard S. Wolko, National Air and Space Museum, Washington, 1987, pp. 1–17.

10. Tom D. Crouch, *A Dream of Wings*, Norton, New York, 1981.

11. Tom D. Crouch, *The Bishop’s Boys*, Norton, New York, 1989.

12. F. E. C. Culick and H. R. Jex, “Aerodynamics, Stability and Control of the 1903 Wright Flyer,” in *The Wright Flyer: An Engineering Perspective*, edited by Howard S. Wolko, National Air and Space Museum, Washington, 1987, pp. 19–43.

13. Laurence K. Loftin, *Quest for Performance: The Evolution of Modern Aircraft*, NASA SP-468, Washington, 1985.

14. R. Miller, and D. Sawers, *The Technical Development of Modern Aviation*, Praeger Publishers, New York, 1970.

15. James R. Hansen, “Bigger: the Quest for Size,” in *Milestones of Aviation*, National Air and Space Museum, Smithsonian Institution, edited by John T. Greenwood, produced by Hugh Lauter Levin Associates, Inc., New York, distributed by Macmillian, New York, 1989, pp. 150–221.

16. John D. Anderson, Jr., *Fundamentals of Aerodynamics*, 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, New York, 1991.

17. S. F. Hoerner, *Fluid Dynamic Drag*, Hoerner Fluid Dynamics, Brick Town, NJ, 1965.

18. S. F. Hoerner, and H. V. Borst, *Fluid Dynamic Lift*, Hoerner Fluid Dynamics, Brick Town, NJ, 1975.

19. Ira H. Abbot, and Albert E. Von Doenhoff, *Theory of Wings Sections*, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1949; also, Dover edition, New York, 1959.

20. David A. Lednicer and Ian Gilchrist, Jr., “A Retrospective: Computational Aerodynamic Analysis Methods Applied to the P-51 Mustang,” AIAA Paper 91-3288-CP, in the *Proceedings of the AIAA 9th Applied Aerodynamics Conference*, September 23–25, 1991, pp. 688–700.

21. John D. Anderson, Jr., *Computational Fluid Dynamics: The Basics with Applications*, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1995.

22. Joseph Katz and Allen Plotkin, *Low-Speed Aerodynamics*, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1991.

569