CHAPTER 1 • The Evolution of the Airplane and Its Performance: A Short History

17

the engine shaft). This represented a dramatic improvement of propeller performance over contemporary practice. For example, Langley reported a propeller efficiency of only 52% for his aerodromes. Today, a modern, variable-pitch propeller can achieve efficiencies as high as 85% to 90%. However, in 1903, the Wright’s propeller efficiency of 70% was simply phenomenal. It was one of the lesser-known but most compelling reasons for the success of the *Wright Flyer*. With their marginal engine linked to their highly efficient propellers, the Wrights had the propulsion aspect of airplane design well in hand.

The aerodynamic features of the *Wright Flyer* were predominately a result of their wind tunnel tests of numerous wing and airfoil shapes. The Wrights were well aware that the major measure of aerodynamic efficiency is the *lift-to-drag ratio* $L/D$. They knew that the lift of an aircraft must equal its weight in order to sustain the machine in the air, and that almost any configuration could produce enough lift if the angle of attack were sufficiently large. But the secret of “good aerodynamics” is to produce this lift with as small a drag as possible, that is, to design an aircraft with as large an $L/D$ value as possible. To accomplish this, the Wrights did three things:

1. They chose an airfoil shape that, based on the collective data from their wind tunnel tests, would give a high $L/D$. The airfoil used on the *Wright Flyer* was a thin, cambered shape, with a camber ratio (ratio of maximum camber to chord length) of 1/20, with the maximum camber near the quarter-chord location. (In contrast, Lilienthal favored airfoils that were circular arcs, i.e., with maximum camber at midchord.) It is interesting that the precise airfoil shape used for the *Wright Flyer* was never tested by the Wright brothers in their wind tunnel. By 1903, they had so much confidence in their understanding of airfoil and wing properties that, in spite of their characteristic conservative philosophy, they felt it unnecessary to test that specific shape.

2. They chose an aspect ratio of 6 for the wings. They had experimented with gliders at Kitty Hawk in the summers of 1900 and 1901, and they were quite disappointed in their aerodynamic performance. The wing aspect ratio of these early gliders was 3. However, their wind tunnel tests clearly indicated that higher-aspect-ratio wings produced higher values of $L/D$. (This was not a new discovery; the advantage of high-aspect-ratio wings had been first theorized by Francis Wenham in 1866. Langley’s whirling arm data, published in 1890, proved conclusively that better performance was obtained with higher-aspect-ratio wings. It is a bit of a mystery why the Wrights, who were very well read and had access to these results, did not pick up on this important aerodynamic feature right from the start.) In any event, based on their own wind tunnel results, the Wrights immediately adopted an aspect ratio of 6 for their 1902 glider, and the following year for the 1903 flyer. At the time, the Wrights had no way of knowing about the existence of induced drag; this aerodynamic phenomenon was not understood until the work of Ludwig Prandtl in Germany 15 years later. The Wrights did not know that, by increasing the aspect ratio from 3 to 6, they reduced the induced drag by a factor of 2. They only knew from their empirical results that the $L/D$ ratio of the 6-aspect-ratio wing was much improved over their previous wing designs.