212

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

or

$$
D=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_{D,0}+\frac{2KS}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}\left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^2
$$

[5.12]

For a given airplane (with given $S$, $C_{D,0}$, and $K$), Eq. (5.12) explicitly shows the variation of drag with altitude (via the value of $\rho_\infty$), velocity $V_\infty$, and weight $W$.

Equation (5.12) can be used to find the flight velocities for a given value of $T_R$. Writing Eq. (5.12) in terms of the dynamic pressure $q_\infty=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2$ and noting that $D=T_R$, we obtain

$$
T_R=q_\infty S C_{D,0}+\frac{KS}{q_\infty}\left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^2
$$

[5.13]

Multiplying Eq. (5.13) by $q_\infty$, and rearranging, we have

$$
q_\infty^2 S C_{D,0}-q_\infty T_R+KS\left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^2=0
$$

[5.14]

Note that, being a quadratic equation in $q_\infty$, Eq. (5.14) yields two roots, that is, two solutions for $q_\infty$. Solving Eq. (5.14) for $q_\infty$ by using the quadratic formula results in

$$
q_\infty=\frac{T_R\pm\sqrt{T_R^2-4SC_{D,0}K(W/S)^2}}{2SC_{D,0}}
$$

$$
=\frac{T_R/S\pm\sqrt{(T_R/S)^2-4C_{D,0}K(W/S)^2}}{2C_{D,0}}
$$

[5.15]

By replacing $q_\infty$ with $\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2$, Eq. (5.15) becomes

$$
V_\infty^2=\frac{T_R/S\pm\sqrt{(T_R/S)^2-4C_{D,0}K(W/S)^2}}{\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}
$$

[5.16]

The parameter $T_R/S$ appears in Eq. (5.16); analogous to the wing loading $W/S$, the quantity $T_R/S$ is sometimes called the *thrust loading*. However, in the hierarchy of parameters important to airplane performance, $T_R/S$ is not quite as fundamental as the wing loading $W/S$ or the thrust-to-weight ratio $T_R/W$ (as will be discussed in the next section). Indeed, $T_R/S$ is simply a combination of $T_R/W$ and $W/S$ via

$$
\frac{T_R}{S}=\frac{T_R}{W}\frac{W}{S}
$$

[5.17]

Substituting Eq. (5.17) into (5.16) and taking the square root, we have our final expression for velocity:

$$
V_\infty=\left[\frac{(T_R/W)(W/S)\pm(W/S)\sqrt{(T_R/W)^2-4C_{D,0}K}}{\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}\right]^{1/2}
$$

[5.18]