CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight 345

this section we remove those constraints and deal with the general case of accelerated rate of climb at any climb angle. Unlike the approach taken in all our performance analyses to this point, where we dealt with forces and invoked Newton's second law for our fundamental dynamic equation, in this present section we take a different approach where we will deal with energy concepts. Energy methods have been used since the 1970s for the analysis of airplane performance with acceleration. The subject of this section is an example of such energy methods.

## Energy Height

Consider an airplane of mass $m$ in flight at some altitude $h$ and with some velocity $V_\infty$. Due to its altitude, the airplane has *potential energy* equal to $mgh$. Due to its velocity, the airplane has kinetic energy equal to $\frac{1}{2} mV_\infty^2$. The total energy of the airplane is the sum of these energies, that is,

$$
\text{Total aircraft energy} = mgh + \frac{1}{2} mV_\infty^2
$$

[6.55]

The *specific energy*, denoted by $H_e$, is defined as total energy per unit weight and is obtained by dividing Eq. (6.55) by $W = mg$. This yields

$$
H_e = \frac{mgh + \frac{1}{2} mV_\infty^2}{W} = \frac{mgh + \frac{1}{2} mV_\infty^2}{mg}
$$

or

$$
H_e = h + \frac{V_\infty^2}{2g}
$$

[6.56]

The specific energy $H_e$ has units of height and is therefore also called the *energy height* of the aircraft. Thus, let us become accustomed to quoting the energy of an airplane in terms of its energy height $H_e$, always remembering that it is simply the sum of the potential and kinetic energies of the airplane per unit weight. Contours of constant $H_e$ are given in Fig. 6.8, which is an “altitude–Mach number map.” Here the ordinate and abscissa are altitude $h$ and Mach number $M$, respectively, and the dashed curves are lines of constant energy height.

We can draw an analogy between energy height and money in the bank. Say that you have a sum of money in the bank split between a checking account and a savings account. Say that you transfer part of your money in the savings account into your checking account. You still have the same total; the distribution of funds between the two accounts is just different. Energy height is analogous to the total of money in the bank; the distribution between kinetic energy and potential energy can change, but the total will be the same. For example, consider two airplanes, one flying at an altitude of 30,000 ft at Mach 0.81 (point A in Fig. 6.8) and the other flying at an altitude of 10,000 ft at Mach 1.3 (point B in Fig. 6.8). Both airplanes have the same energy height of 40,000 ft (check this yourself). However, airplane A has more potential energy and less kinetic energy (per unit weight) than airplane B. If both airplanes maintain their same states of total energy, then both are capable of “zooming” to an altitude of 40,000 ft at zero velocity (point C in Fig. 6.8) simply by trading all their kinetic energy for potential energy.