194

PART 2 $\bullet$ Airplane Performance

Now consider the four forces of flight as they appear in Fig. 4.3. In the side view, the lift is shown, in perspective, rotated away from the local vertical through the angle $\phi$; that is, the lift is inclined to the page at the roll angle $\phi$. In the head-on front view, the lift $L$ is clearly shown inclined to the vertical at angle $\phi$. The thrust $T$, which is inclined to the flight path direction through the angle $\epsilon$, is also rotated out of the plane of the page in the side view. In the head-on front view, $T$ projects as the component $T \sin \epsilon$; this component is also rotated away from the vertical through angle $\phi$. The weight $W$ is always directed downward in the local vertical direction. Hence, in the side view, $W$ is in the plane of the page. In the head-on front view, the weight projects as the component $W \cos \theta$, directed downward along the vertical. Finally, in the side view, the drag $D$, which is parallel to the local relative wind, is in the plane of the page. In the head-on view, since $D$ is parallel to $V_{\infty}$, the drag does not appear; its component projected on plane AA is zero.

## 4.3 THE EQUATIONS OF MOTION

The equations of motion for an airplane are simply statements of Newton's second law, namely,

$$
\mathbf{F} = m\mathbf{a}
$$

[4.1]

Equation (4.1) is a vector equation, where the force $\mathbf{F}$ and the acceleration $\mathbf{a}$ are vector quantities. However, Eq. (4.1) can also be written in scalar form in terms of scalar components of $\mathbf{F}$ and $\mathbf{a}$. For example, if we choose an arbitrary direction in space, denoted by $s$, and we let $F_s$ and $a_s$ be the components of $\mathbf{F}$ and $\mathbf{a}$, respectively, in the $s$ direction, then Eq. (4.1) gives

$$
F_s = ma_s
$$

[4.2]

At this stage in our discussion, we have two choices. We could choose to develop the equations of motion in a very general, formalistic manner, dealing with a rotating, spherical earth and taking into account the acceleration of gravity with distance from the center of the earth. Such a development can be found in intermediate or advanced books on dynamics. A nice discussion of the general equations of motion is given by Vinh in Ref. 45. Our other choice is to assume a flat, stationary earth and to develop the equations of motion from a less formalistic, more physically motivated point of view. Since the flat-earth equations are all we need for the present book, and since our purpose is not to cover general dynamics, we make the latter choice.

Return to Fig. 4.3, and visualize the motion of the airplane along its curved flight path in three-dimensional space. Since we are interested in the *translational* motion of the airplane only, let us replace the airplane in Fig. 4.3 with a point mass at its center of gravity, with the four forces of flight acting through this point, as sketched in Fig. 4.4. The sketch in Fig. 4.4 is drawn so that the plane of the page is the plane formed by the local free-stream velocity $V_{\infty}$ and the local vertical. Hence, in Fig. 4.4, both $D$ and $W$ are in the plane of the page. The component of lift in this plane is $L \cos \phi$.