CHAPTER 9  •  Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

519

to locate the pods relative to the wing such that there was virtually no aerodynamic interference between the two. The podded engines have very short inlet ducts, and the inlets are easily placed in regions of almost uniform flow.

## 9.4 SUPERSONIC AIRPLANE DESIGN

The physics of supersonic flow is completely different from that of subsonic flow—about as great as the difference between night and day. This causes many of the details of supersonic airplane design to be different from those for subsonic airplane design. However, the design *philosophy* as discussed in Chapter 7 is essentially the same, as we will see.

Almost all the supersonic airplanes designed to date are military airplanes; the single exception is the Concorde supersonic transport, designed during the 1960s and still in commercial service. Because of the strong military flavor on supersonic airplane design, in the following sections we highlight the design case histories of three military airplanes. The first is the General Dynamics (now Lockheed-Martin) F-16 lightweight fighter. This is followed by the Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird reconnaissance airplane. Finally, we examine the design of the most advanced fighter (at this date of writing), the Lockheed-Martin F-22.

### 9.4.1 Design of the F-16

The cost of military airplanes, from initial conceptual design to rolling off the production line, has increased almost exponentially during the last half of the twentieth century. (Some tongue-in-cheek extrapolations have shown that the price tag on a new airplane by the year 2020 would take the entire budget of the Defense Department of the United States.) Concerned about this trend, the Air Force initiated a project in the 1960s to design a comparatively low-cost, lightweight fighter. The requirements for the design (pivot point 1 in Fig. 7.3) were rather broadly stated, and are summarized by Buckner et al. (Ref. 66) as follows:

> The intent of the contract was to demonstrate the feasibility of a highly maneuverable, lightweight fighter aircraft through a prototype design, fabrication, and flight test program. The design objective was to maximize the usable maneuverability and agility of the aircraft in the air combat arena within the constraint that system cost, complexity, and utility are prudently considered and balanced. Emphasis was to be placed on small size and low weight/cost design techniques. The performance goal was to provide maximum maneuvering capability in the 0.8–1.6 Mach combat arena.

General Dynamics was one of the companies responding to this request for proposal from the Air Force; its design was labeled the YF-16. Ultimately, two prototypes were produced by General Dynamics, and in January 1975, the design was selected for full-scale development and production as the F-16. A three-view of the F-16 is shown in Fig. 9.30.