176

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

$$
\frac{T}{T_{V=0}} = AM_\infty^{-n}
$$

[3.23]

where $A$ and $n$ are functions of altitude. For example, at an altitude of 3 km, a reasonable correlation for the climb-rating thrust is

$$
\frac{T}{T_{V=0}} = 0.369M_\infty^{-0.305}
$$

[3.24]

Keep in mind that Eqs. (3.22) to (3.24), as well as the curves in Figs. 3.19 and 3.20, are for a Rolls-Royce RB211 engine (designed for use with the Boeing 747 and similar large transport aircraft). They are given here only to illustrate the general trends.

Although the variation of $T$ for a civil turbofan is a strong function of $V_\infty$ (or $M_\infty$) at lower altitudes, note from Fig. 3.20 that at the relatively high altitude of 11 km, $T$ is relatively constant for the narrow Mach number range from 0.7 to 0.85. This corresponds to normal cruise Mach numbers for civil transports such as the Boeing 747. Hence, for the analysis of airplane performance in the cruise range, it appears reasonable to assume $T =$ constant.

The variation of $T$ with altitude is approximated by

$$
\frac{T}{T_0} = \left(\frac{\rho}{\rho_0}\right)^m
$$

[3.25]

as given by Mattingly et al. (Ref. 43) and Mair and Birdsall (Ref. 41). Equation (3.25) is an empirical relation which holds for a large number of civil turbofan engines. The value of $m$ depends on the engine design; it is usually near 1, but could be less than or greater than 1.

The variation of thrust specific fuel consumption with both altitude and Mach number is shown in Fig. 3.21 for the Rolls-Royce RB211-535E4 turbofan. Here, $c_t/c_{t_\infty}$ is the ratio of the thrust specific fuel consumption at the specified altitude and Mach number, denoted by $c_t$, to the value of $c_t$ at zero velocity and at sea level, denoted by $c_{t_\infty}$. The variation of $c_t$ with velocity at a given altitude follows the relation

$$
c_t = B(1 + kM_\infty)
$$

[3.26]

where $B$ and $k$ are empirical constants found by correlating the data. Equation (3.26) is valid only for a limited range of $M_\infty$ around the cruise value $0.7 < M_\infty < 0.85$. A glance at Fig. 3.21 shows why turbofans were not used on the Concorde supersonic transport, with its cruising Mach number of 2.2. As mentioned in Section 3.4, the thrust specific fuel consumption of a turbojet engine is almost constant with speed in the supersonic regime. However, for a turbofan, $c_t$ increases markedly with increases in $M_\infty$, as shown in Fig. 3.21. For this reason, a turbojet is more fuel-efficient than a turbofan is at the design Mach number of 2.2 for the Concorde.

The ordinate in Fig. 3.21 is expanded. Hence, the altitude effect on $c_t$ looks larger than it really is. For example, at $M_\infty = 0.7$, there is about an 11% reduction of $c_t$ when the altitude is increased from 3 to 11 km. Therefore, to first order, we assume the $c_t$ is constant with altitude.