# CHAPTER 6 Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

drag polar is given by Eq. (2.47), repeated here:

$$
C_D = C_{D,0} + K C_L^2
\qquad [2.47]
$$

This is for two primary reasons: (1) With the landing gear fully extended, $C_{D,0}$ is larger than when the landing gear is retracted; and (2) there is a reduction in the induced drag due to the close proximity of the wings to the ground—part of the “ground effect.” An approximate expression for the increase in $C_{D,0}$ due to the extended landing gear is given in Ref. 41 as

$$
\Delta C_{D,0} = \frac{W}{S} K_{uc} m^{-0.215}
\qquad [6.76]
$$

where $W/S$ is the wing loading, $m$ is the maximum mass of the airplane, and the factor $K_{uc}$ depends on the amount of flap deflection. With flap deflection, the average airflow velocity over the bottom of the wing is lower than it would be with no flap deflection; that is, the deflected flap partially blocks the airflow over the bottom surface. Hence, the landing gear drag is less with flap deflection than its value with no flap deflection. In Eq. (6.76), when $W/S$ is in units of newtons per square meter and $m$ is in units of kilograms, $K_{uc} = 5.81 \times 10^{-5}$ for a zero flap deflection and $3.16 \times 10^{-5}$ for maximum flap deflection. These values are based on correlations for a number of civil transports, and are approximate only. In regard to the induced drag during the ground roll, the downwash is somewhat inhibited by the proximity of the ground, and hence the induced drag contribution is less than that included in Eq. (2.47); that is, for the ground roll, $K$ in Eq. (2.47) must be reduced below that for the airplane in flight. The reduction in the induced drag coefficient can be approximated by the relation from Ref. 50 given here

$$
\frac{C_{D_i}\ \text{(in-ground effect)}}{C_{D_i}\ \text{(out-of-ground effect)}} = G = \frac{(16h/b)^2}{1 + (16h/b)^2}
\qquad [6.77]
$$

where $h$ is the height of the wing above the ground and $b$ is the wingspan. To return to our discussion of the drag polar in Section 2.9.2, the value of $k_3$ in Eq. (2.44) is reduced by the factor $G$ due to ground effect. Also, because wave drag does not occur at the low speeds for takeoff, $k_2 = 0$ in Eq. (2.44). With all the above in mind, the conventional drag polar given by Eq. (2.47) should be modified to account for the effects during ground roll. Returning to Eqs. (2.44) and (2.45), we can approximate the drag polar during ground roll as

$$
C_D = C_{D,0} + \Delta C_{D,0} + (k_1 + Gk_3) C_L^2
\qquad [6.78]
$$

where $C_{D,0}$ and $k_1$ in Eq. (6.78) are the same values given by the conventional flight drag polar—$\Delta C_{D,0}$ is given by Eq. (6.76), and $G$ is given by Eq. (6.77).

The value of the coefficient of rolling friction in Eq. (6.71) depends on the type of ground surface that the airplane is rolling on. It also depends on whether the wheel brakes are off or on. Obviously, during takeoff the brakes are off, and during landing the brakes are usually on. Some representative values of $\mu_r$ are listed in Table 6.1, as obtained from Ref. 25.