476

PART 3 • Airplane Design

failed, as indicated by the stationary propeller in Fig. 8.38. The thrust from the left engine is no longer balanced by an equal thrust from the right engine; instead, the thrust from the left engine creates a moment about a vertical axis through the center of gravity, which tends to yaw the airplane to the right. This yawing moment is counterbalanced by a horizontal force ($f_v$ in Fig. 8.38) on the vertical tail, which acts through a moment arm to the center of gravity. In this way the moments about the vertical axis will be balanced, and the airplane will not rotate about the vertical axis. However, $f_v$ is a right-side force, which if left unbalanced will cause the airplane to sideslip (translate) to the right. So $f_v$ must be compensated by an equal side force toward the left, shown as $f_s$ in Fig. 8.38. This is created by having the fuselage in a yawed position *to the left*, hence creating the left-side force $f_s$ on the fuselage. In turn, this cocks the vertical tail in the wrong direction. Therefore, the *rudder* on the vertical tail must have enough control authority to produce the required $f_v$ in the direction shown, even though the vertical tail is now at an unfavorable incidence angle. Note that in this attitude, the wings are still level, denoted by zero bank angle $\phi_0$. So Fig. 8.38 illustrates one possible attitude of the airplane that produces a straight and level flight path after an engine failure, namely, a skid (fuselage yawed) with 0° angle of bank. The skid is in the direction of the operating engine.

Figure 8.39 taken from Douglas's paper illustrates another possible attitude of the airplane for a straight and level flight path after engine failure. Here, the side force on the vertical tail $f_v$ necessary to counterbalance the yawing moment from the one operating engine is compensated by an equal and opposite side force obtained by banking the airplane (lowering the left wing) through the angle $\phi$ so that a component of the weight, $f_w \sin \phi$, is equal and opposite to $f_v$, thus *not* creating a sideslip. In this attitude, there is *no* yaw; all $f_v$ is due to rudder deflection, not to any incidence angle for the vertical tail. Hence, Fig. 8.39 illustrates another possible attitude of the airplane that produces a straight and level flight path, namely, a bank with 0° angle of yaw. The bank is such that the lowered wing is on the same side as the operating engine.

Figure 8.40 is a third possible attitude, one which is necessary if there is insufficient rudder control authority to maintain either of the previous two. Here, the necessary $f_v$ to counter the moment due to the one operating engine is produced mainly by the incidence angle of the vertical tail because the rudder is not powerful enough to do the job. This requires the fuselage to be yawed to the right. In turn, a side force $f_s$ is produced on the yawed fuselage, pointing in the same direction as $f_v$. The sum $f_s + f_v$ must be balanced by an equal and opposite component of the weight obtained by banking the airplane to the left, such that $f_w \sin \phi = f_s + f_v$. This requires more bank angle than the case shown in Fig. 8.39. Hence, Fig. 8.40 shows yet another attitude that results in a straight and level flight path, namely, a combined yaw and angle of bank, with the yaw in the direction of the failed engine, and the lowered wing in the direction of the operating engine.

Note that in any of the three attitudes shown in Figs. 8.38 to 8.40, the drag is increased due to (1) the idling propeller, and (2) the increased aerodynamic drag on the vertical tail (the latter due to an increased induced drag on the tail).

The case of engine-out performance is not frequently discussed in basic design texts. However, it has been discussed here because one-engine-out performance was