372

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

However, if we assume that $J_T$ and $J_A$ in Eq. (6.117) can be assumed constant, Eq. (6.117) becomes

$$
s_g - s_{\mathrm{fr}} = \frac{1}{2gJ_A}\ln\left(1 + \frac{J_A}{J_T}V_{\mathrm{TD}}^2\right)
$$

[6.118]

According to Raymer (Ref. 25), the free roll depends partly on pilot technique and usually lasts for 1 to 3 s. Letting $N$ be the time increment for the free roll, we have $s_{\mathrm{fr}} = NV_{\mathrm{TD}}$. Then Eq. (6.118) yields for the total ground roll $s_g$

$$
s_g = NV_{\mathrm{TD}} + \frac{1}{2gJ_A}\ln\left(1 + \frac{J_A}{J_T}V_{\mathrm{TD}}^2\right)
$$

[6.119]

Equation (6.119) for the landing ground roll is analogous to Eq. (6.90) for the takeoff ground roll. With Eq. (6.119), a quick analytical solution of the ground roll for landing can be made.

An analytic form for $s_g$ that more closely illustrates the design parameters that govern landing performance can be obtained by substituting Eq. (6.111) directly into Eq. (6.81), obtaining

$$
ds = \frac{m}{2}\frac{d\left(V_\infty^2\right)}{-T_{\mathrm{rev}} - D - \mu_r(W - L)}
$$

[6.120]

Integrating Eq. (6.120) from $s_{\mathrm{fr}}$ to $s_g$ and noting that $m = W/g$, we have

$$
s_g - s_{\mathrm{fr}} = \frac{W}{2g}\int_{V_{\mathrm{TD}}}^{0}\frac{d\left(V_\infty^2\right)}{-T_{\mathrm{rev}} - D - \mu_r(W - L)}
$$

or

$$
s_g = NV_{\mathrm{TD}} + \frac{W}{2g}\int_{0}^{V_{\mathrm{TD}}}\frac{d\left(V_\infty^2\right)}{T_{\mathrm{rev}} + D + \mu_r(W - L)}
$$

[6.121]

In Eq. (6.121), $T_{\mathrm{rev}} + D + \mu_r(W - L)$ is the net force acting in the horizontal direction on the airplane during the landing ground roll. In Fig. 6.20, a schematic is shown of the variation of forces acting during the landing ground roll, with the exception of $T_{\mathrm{rev}}$. The application of thrust reversal is a matter of pilot technique, and it may be applied only for a certain segment of the ground roll. If this is the case, Eq. (6.121) must be integrated in segments, with and without $T_{\mathrm{rev}}$. In any event, the force $D + \mu_r(W - L)$ in Fig. 6.20 is reasonably constant with $s$. If we assume that $T_{\mathrm{rev}}$ is also constant, then it is reasonable to assume that the expression $T_{\mathrm{rev}} + D + \mu_r(W - L)$ is a constant, evaluated at a value equal to its value at $V_\infty = 0.7V_{\mathrm{TD}}$. Then Eq. (6.121) is easily integrated, giving

$$
s_g = NV_{\mathrm{TD}} + \frac{WV_{\mathrm{TD}}^2}{2g}\left[\frac{1}{T_{\mathrm{rev}} + D + \mu_r(W - L)}\right]_{0.7V_{\mathrm{TD}}}
$$

[6.122]