148

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

nature grab the propulsive device and exert a force on it, namely, the thrust $T$, shown in Fig. 3.1b. The air exerts thrust on the device. However, from Newton’s third law—namely, that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction—the propulsion device will exert on the air an equal and opposite force $T$, acting towards the right, as sketched in Fig. 3.1c. Now imagine that you are the air, and you experience the force $T$ acting toward the right. You will accelerate toward the right; if your initial velocity is $V_\infty$ far ahead of the propulsion device, you will have a larger velocity $V_j$ downstream of the device, as sketched in Fig. 3.1c. We call $V_j$ the *jet velocity*. The change in velocity $V_j - V_\infty$ is related to $T$ through Newton’s second law, which states that the force on an object is equal to the time rate of change of momentum of that object. Here, the “object” is the air flowing through the propulsion device, and the force on the air is $T$, as shown in Fig. 3.1c. Momentum is mass times velocity. Let $\dot{m}$ be the *mass flow* (for example, kg/s or slug/s) through the stream tube in Fig. 3.1c. We are assuming steady flow, so $\dot{m}$ is the same across any cross section of the stream tube. Hence, the momentum *per unit time* entering the stream tube at the left is $\dot{m}V_\infty$, and that leaving the stream tube at the right is $\dot{m}V_j$. Thus, the time rate of change of momentum of the air flowing through the propulsion device is simply the momentum flowing out at the right minus the momentum flowing in at the left, namely, $\dot{m}V_j - \dot{m}V_\infty$, or $\dot{m}(V_j - V_\infty)$. From Newton’s second law, this time rate of change of momentum is equal to the force $T$. That is,

$$
T = \dot{m}(V_j - V_\infty)
$$

[3.1]

Equation (3.1) is the *thrust equation* for our generic propulsion device. (We note that a more detailed derivation of the thrust equation takes into account the additional force exerted by the pressure acting on the “walls” of the stream tube; for our analysis here, we are assuming this effect to be small, and we are ignoring it. For a more detailed derivation, see the control volume analysis in chapter 9 of Ref. 3.)

Let us now consider the matter of efficiency, which has a lot to do with the “wasted” kinetic energy left in the exhaust jet. In Fig. 3.1 we have visualized the situation when the propulsive device is stationary, and the air is moving through the device, with an initial upstream air velocity of $V_\infty$. Clearly, velocities $V_\infty$ and $V_j$ are relative to the device. If we are sitting in the laboratory with the stationary device, we see the air moving both in front of and behind the device with velocities $V_\infty$ and $V_j$, respectively. However, consider the equivalent situation where the propulsive device *moves* with a velocity $V_\infty$ into stationary air, as shown in Fig. 3.2. This is the usual case in practice; the propulsive device is mounted on an airplane, and the airplane flies with velocity $V_\infty$ into still air. *Relative to the device*, the flow picture is *identical* to that sketched in Fig. 3.1, with an upstream velocity relative to the device equal to $V_\infty$ and a downstream velocity relative to the device equal to $V_j$. However, for us sitting in the laboratory, we do not see velocities $V_\infty$ and $V_j$ at all; rather, we see stationary air in front of the device, we see the device hurtling by us at a velocity $V_\infty$, and we see the air behind the device moving in the opposite direction with a velocity (relative to the laboratory) of $V_j - V_\infty$, as shown in Fig. 3.2. In essence, before the moving device enters the laboratory, the air in the room is stationary, hence it has no kinetic