374

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

forward engine thrust-to-weight ratio is a major player during takeoff, whereas the engine thrust is in idle (or in reverse) for the landing ground roll.

## Example 6.7

Calculate the total landing distance for our Gulfstream-like airplane at standard sea level, assuming that (for conservatism) the landing weight is the same as the takeoff gross weight of 73,000 lb. Assume that no thrust reversal is used and that the runway is dry concrete with a brakes-on value of $\mu_r = 0.4$. The approach angle is $3^\circ$.

### Solution

Let us first calculate the stalling velocity for landing. From Table 5.3 for single-slotted Fowler flaps deflected in the landing position, we take $(C_L)_{\max}/\cos \Lambda = 2.7$. With the wing sweep angle of $\Lambda = 27^\circ 40'$, we have $(C_L)_{\max} = 2.7\cos(27^\circ 40') = 2.39$. From Eq. (5.67),

$$
V_{\text{stall}} = \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{(C_L)_{\max}}}
= \sqrt{\frac{2(76.84)}{(0.002377)(2.39)}} = 164.5\ \text{ft/s}
$$

For a commercial airplane, the average flight velocity during the flare is

$$
V_f = 1.23V_{\text{stall}} = 1.23(164.5) = 202.3\ \text{ft/s}
$$

and the touchdown velocity is

$$
V_{\mathrm{TD}} = 1.15V_{\text{stall}} = 1.15(164.5) = 189.2\ \text{ft/s}
$$

From Eq. (6.107)

$$
R = \frac{V_f^2}{0.2g} = \frac{(202.3)^2}{(0.2)(32.2)} = 6,354.9\ \text{ft}
$$

From Eq. (6.106)

$$
h_f = R(1 - \cos \theta_a) = 6,354.9(1 - \cos 3^\circ) = 8.71\ \text{ft}
$$

The approach distance is obtained from Eq. (6.108):

$$
s_a = \frac{50 - h_f}{\operatorname{Tan}\theta_a} = \frac{50 - 8.71}{\operatorname{Tan} 3^\circ} = 788\ \text{ft}
$$

The flare distance is given by Eq. (6.109).

$$
s_f = R\sin\theta_a = 6,354.9\sin 3^\circ = 333\ \text{ft}
$$

The ground roll is obtained from Eq. (6.119). In this equation, the values of $J_T$ and $J_A$ are given by Eqs. (6.113) and (6.114), respectively. For $J_T$, we have

$$
J_T = \frac{T_{\text{rev}}}{W} + \mu_r = 0 + 0.4 = 0.4
$$

To calculate $J_A$, we note from Example 6.6 that $G = 0.588$, $k_1 = 0.02$, and $C_L = 0.1$ for the ground roll. The value of $\Delta C_{D,0} = 0.0177$ calculated in Example 6.6 was for moderate flap deflection for takeoff. In contrast, for landing we assume full flap deflection. From the discussion in Section 6.7.1, $K_{uc}$ in Eq. (6.76) can be taken as $3.16 \times 10^{-5}$ for maximum flap deflection. In Example 6.6, the value used for $K_{uc}$ was $4.5 \times 10^{-5}$. Hence, from Eq. (6.76), the value of $\Delta C_{D,0}$ calculated in Example 6.6 for takeoff should be reduced for landing by the