444

PART 3 • Airplane Design

At this stage we need to estimate the size of the tires. However, the tire size depends on the load carried by each tire. To calculate how the weight of the airplane is distributed over the two main wheels and the nosewheel, we need to locate the wheels relative to the airplane's center of gravity. Since the landing gear will retract into the wing, this means that we have to locate the wing relative to the fuselage. So let us redirect our attention for a moment to the question: Where should the wing be located?

This question was addressed to some extent in Section 8.6.4, where we estimated the location of the c.g. of the airplane. In that section, we arbitrarily placed the mean aerodynamic center of the wing at the location of our first estimate for the c.g., namely, at $\bar{x} = 7.72$ ft. Then, with the wing at this location, we recalculated the location of the c.g. including the weight of the wing; the result was $\bar{x} = 7.87$ ft, which is the c.g. location shown in Fig. 8.24. This location of the wing was preliminary; it was adopted only for the purpose of obtaining an approximation for the airplane's c.g. location. We are free to change the location of the wing at this stage in our iterative design process. We do so based on the following argument.

From considerations of longitudinal stability, the aerodynamic center of the airplane must lie behind the airplane's center of gravity. The aerodynamic center of the airplane is also called the *neutral point* for the airplane; the neutral point is, by definition, that location of the airplane's c.g. that would result in the pitching moment about the c.g. being independent of angle of attack. We have not discussed the subject of stability and control in this book simply because of a lack of space. However, all we need here is just the basic idea of longitudinal stability. Indeed, reference is made to the introductory discussion in chapter 7 of Ref. 3. There, the following relation was given between the location of the aerodynamic center of the wing body $x_{acwb}$ and the location of the neutral point $x_n$ as

$$
x_{acwb} = x_n - V_{HT}\frac{a_t}{a}
$$

[8.76]

where $V_{HT}$ is the horizontal tail volume ratio, defined by Eq. (8.60), and $a_t$ and $a$ are the lift slopes for the horizontal tail and the complete airplane, respectively. In Eq. (8.76), the influence of the downwash angle behind the wing and ahead of the tail is neglected. Furthermore, the *static margin* is defined as

$$
\text{Static margin} \equiv \frac{x_n - \bar{x}}{\bar{c}}
$$

[8.77]

where $\bar{x}$ is the location of the airplane's c.g. and $\bar{c}$ is the wing mean aerodynamic chord. For conventional general aviation airplanes, the static margin should be on the order of 5% to 10%. Let us assume the 10% value for our airplane:

$$
\text{Static margin} \equiv \frac{x_n - \bar{x}}{\bar{c}} = 0.1
$$

[8.78]

Using $\bar{x} = 7.87$ ft and $\bar{c} = 5.17$ ft as obtained earlier, we find from Eq. (8.78) that

$$
x_n = 0.1\bar{c} + \bar{x} = 0.1(5.17) + 7.87 = 8.387\ \text{ft}
$$