# CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

333

The corresponding value of $V_\infty$ is obtained from Eq. (6.34)

$$
(V_\infty)_{\omega_{\max}}=\left[\frac{2(76.84)}{0.002377}\right]^{1/2}\left(\frac{0.08}{0.015}\right)^{1/4}=386\ \text{ft/s}
$$

These values of $n$ and $V_\infty$ locate point $D$ in Fig. 6.2. Once again, this is beyond the stall limit, but only slightly. The value of $\omega_{\max}$ will be different from 14.27 deg/s calculated above, because $\omega_{\max}$ is constrained by $(C_L)_{\max}$. Indeed, $\omega_{\max}$ will correspond to point $A$ in Fig. 6.2, where $V_A = 445$ ft/s and $n_A = 3.6$. For this case, from Eq. (6.11)

$$
\omega_{\max}=\frac{g\sqrt{n_A^2-1}}{V_A}=\frac{32.2\sqrt{(3.6)^2-1}}{445}=0.25\ \text{rad/s}=14.3\ \text{deg/s}
$$

Note that, within roundoff error, this is the same value as calculated earlier from Eq. (6.36). This is because, for this case, points $D$ and $A$ in Fig. 6.2 are so close, and because $\omega$ has a rather flat variation with $V_\infty$ in the vicinity of $\omega_{\max}$.

## DESIGN CAMEO

Minimum turn radius and maximum turning rate are important performance characteristics for a fighter airplane; they are much less so for a commercial transport or heavy bomber. For the design of a high-performance fighter, the results of this section reveal some of the design features desirable for good turning performance.

For example, an examination of Eqs. (6.33) and (6.36) shows that wing loading and thrust-to-weight ratio dominate the values of $R_{\min}$ and $\omega_{\max}$. For good turn performance (low $R_{\min}$ and high $\omega_{\max}$), $W/S$ should be low and $T/W$ should be high. For the design of a modern high-performance fighter, $T/W$ is usually dictated by other requirements than turn performance, such as the need to have a high supersonic maximum velocity, or a constraint on takeoff length. Wing loading is usually dictated by landing velocity (i.e., stall velocity) considerations. However, airplane design is always a compromise, and both $T/W$ and $W/S$ can be “adjusted” within some margins to enhance turning performance for a design where such performance is important. The designer can choose to make $W/S$ slightly smaller and $T/W$ slightly larger than would otherwise be the case, just to give the new airplane “an edge” in turning performance over the competition. For example, there has been some discussion of designing a new wing for the F-15 supersonic fighter, a mainline aircraft for the U.S. Air Force since 1974. The new wing would be *larger*, hence reducing $W/S$, for the purpose of enhancing subsonic combat maneuverability, at the cost of some decrease in maximum velocity.

In regard to combat maneuverability (today, the word *agility* is used to describe the overall concept of high maneuverability), an examination of Eqs. (6.33) and (6.36) shows that minimum turn radius and maximum turn rate depend on $\rho_\infty$, that is, altitude. Turning performance increases with $\rho_\infty$. Hence, the best turning performance is achieved at sea level. Moreover, we have noted from Fig. 6.2 that $R_{\min}$ and $\omega_{\max}$ occur at relatively low velocities (e.g., denoted by points $C$ and $A$, respectively, in Fig. 6.2). When modern fighters with supersonic capabilities engage in dogfights, their altitude generally decreases and the flight velocities are rapidly lowered, generally below Mach 1. Hence, the “combat arena,” even for a Mach 3 airplane, is usually in the subsonic range.

From Eqs. (6.33) and (6.36), good turning performance is also enhanced by good aerodynamics, that is, by low values of $C_{D,0}$ and $K$. In airplane design, good streamlining will usually result in lower $C_{D,0}$, with a weaker but still beneficial reduction in $K$. However, from the discussion surrounding Eq. (2.46), the drag-due-to-lift factor $K$ is of the form

*(continued)*