# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

273

Substituting Eq. (5.29) into Eq. (5.96), we have, where $\theta$ and $V_\infty$ in Eq. (5.96) now become $\theta_{\max}$ and $V_{\theta_{\max}}$, respectively,

$$
W \cos \theta_{\max} = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_{\theta_{\max}}^2 \, S \sqrt{\frac{C_{D,0}}{K}}
$$

[5.97]

Solving Eq. (5.97) for $V_{\theta_{\max}}$, we have for a jet-propelled airplane,

$$
V_{\theta_{\max}} = \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\left(\frac{K}{C_{D,0}}\right)^{1/2}\frac{W}{S}\cos\theta_{\max}}
$$

[5.98]

Finally, the rate of climb that corresponds to the maximum climb angle is given by

$$
(R/C)_{\theta_{\max}} = V_{\theta_{\max}} \sin \theta_{\max}
$$

[5.99]

where, in Eq. (5.99), $V_{\theta_{\max}}$ is obtained from Eq. (5.98) and $\theta_{\max}$ is obtained from Eq. (5.95). Note from Eq. (5.95) that $\theta_{\max}$ does *not* depend on wing loading, but from Eq. (5.98), $V_{\theta_{\max}}$ varies directly as $(W/S)^{1/2}$. Hence, everything else being equal, for flight at $\theta_{\max}$, the rate of climb is higher for higher wing loadings. Also, the effect of altitude is clearly seen from these results. Since $(L/D)_{\max}$ does not depend on altitude, then from Eq. (5.94), $\theta_{\max}$ decreases with altitude because $T$ decreases with altitude. However, from Eq. (5.98) $V_{\theta_{\max}}$ increases with altitude. These are competing effects in determining $(R/C)_{\theta_{\max}}$ from Eq. (5.99). However, the altitude effect on $\theta_{\max}$ usually dominates, and $(R/C)_{\theta_{\max}}$ usually decreases with increasing altitude.

*Caution:* For a given airplane, it is possible for $V_{\theta_{\max}}$ to be less than the stalling velocity. For such a case, it is not possible for that airplane to achieve the theoretical maximum climb angle.

Consider the case for a propeller-driven airplane. From Eq. (5.48),

$$
T_A = \frac{\eta_{pr} P}{V_\infty}
$$

[5.48]

where $\eta_{pr}$ is the propeller efficiency and $P$ is the shaft power from the reciprocating piston engine (or the effective shaft power $P_{es}$ for a turboprop). The product $\eta_{pr}P$ is the power available $P_A$, which we assume to be constant with velocity. The climb angle for the propeller-driven airplane is given by Eq. (5.88) with Eq. (5.48) inserted for the thrust, that is,

$$
\sin \theta = \frac{\eta_{pr}P}{V_\infty W} - \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 \left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^{-1} C_{D,0} - \frac{W}{S}\frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}
$$

[5.100]

In Eq. (5.100), $\eta_{pr}P$ is assumed constant with velocity. Although Eq. (5.100) does not give useful information directly for $\theta_{\max}$, such information can be obtained by differentiating Eq. (5.100) and setting the derivative equal to zero, thus defining the conditions that will maximize $\sin \theta$.

Differentiating Eq. (5.100) with respect to $V_\infty$, we have

$$
\frac{d(\sin\theta)}{dV_\infty} = -\frac{\eta_{pr}P}{W V_\infty^2} - \rho_\infty V_\infty \left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^{-1} C_{D,0} + 2\frac{W}{S}\frac{K}{\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^3}
$$

[5.101]