# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

**Question:** At what point on the body do the lift and drag act? For example, when we draw the lift and drag forces on a body such as in Fig. 2.3, through what point on the body should we draw these forces? To address this question, we note that the two hands of nature which grab the body—the pressure and shear stress distributions acting over the surface—are *distributed loads* which are impressed over the whole surface, such as sketched in Fig. 2.1. The *net effect* of these distributed loads is the production of the resultant concentrated force $\mathbf{R}$, and hence the lift and drag, as shown in Fig. 2.3. In other words, the distributed loads create an aerodynamic force on the body, and we can *picture* this force as *equivalent to a single concentrated force vector* $\mathbf{R}$, applied at a *point* on the body (as if nature were touching the body with only one finger at that point, instead of grabbing it all over the complete surface, as happens in reality).

This leads back to our original question: Through what point on the body should the single concentrated force $\mathbf{R}$ be drawn? One obvious answer would be to plot the distributed load on graph paper and find the *centroid* of this load, just as you would find the centroid of an area from integral calculus. The centroid of the distributed load on the body is the point through which the equivalent concentrated force acts. This point is called the *center of pressure*. The complete mechanical effect of the distributed aerodynamic load over the body can be exactly represented by the resultant force $\mathbf{R}$ (or equivalently the lift and drag) acting through the center of pressure. This is illustrated in Fig. 2.5. The actual distributed load is sketched in Fig. 2.5a. The mechanical effect of this distributed load is equal to the resultant lift and drag acting through the center of pressure, denoted by c.p., as shown in Fig. 2.5b. If we were to place an axis perpendicular to the page going through the center of pressure, there would be *no moment* about the axis. Hence, an alternate definition of the center of pressure is that point on the body about which the moment is zero.

However, we do not have to end here. Once we accept that the mechanical effect of the distributed load can be exactly represented by a concentrated force acting at the center of pressure, then we know from the principles of statics that the concentrated load can be shifted to any other part on the body, as long as we also specify the moments about that other point. For example, in Fig. 2.5c the lift and drag are shown acting through the quarter-chord point, with a moment acting about the quarter-chord point, namely, $M_{c/4}$. The mechanical effect of the distributed load in Fig. 2.5a can be exactly represented by a concentrated force acting at the quarter-chord point along with the specification of the moment about that point. Yet another choice might be to draw the lift and drag acting through the leading edge along with a specification of the moment about the leading edge, as sketched in Fig. 2.5d.

In summary, all four sketches shown in Fig. 2.5 are equivalent and proper representations of the same mechanical effect. Therefore, you should feel comfortable using any of them. For example, in airplane dynamics, the center of pressure is rarely used because it shifts when the angle of attack is changed. Instead, for airfoil aerodynamics, the concentrated force is frequently drawn at the quarter-chord point. Another choice frequently made is to apply the concentrated force at the aerodynamic center, a point on the body which we will define shortly.