112

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

air density is low, the U-2 generates its lift by flying at high values of $C_L$. From Eq. (2.30), the induced drag is going to be large. To minimize this effect, the designers of the U-2 exerted every effort to make the aspect ratio as large as possible.]

We end this discussion about induced drag by noting that, in England, induced drag is usually called *vortex drag*. For some reason, this terminology has not been picked up in the United States. The term *induced drag* was coined by Ludwig Prandtl and Max Munk at Gottingen University in Germany in 1918, and we have carried on with this tradition to the present. This author feels that the descriptor *vortex drag* is much more explicit as to its source and is therefore preferable. However, in this book we continue with tradition and use the label *induced drag*.

## Example 2.14

Consider the wing described in Example 2.5. For low-speed flow, calculate the lift-to-drag ratio for this wing at $6^\circ$ angle of attack. Assume the span efficiency factor $e$ is 0.95.

### Solution

The induced drag coefficient is given by Eq. (2.30). From Example 2.5, at $\alpha = 6^\circ$,

$C_L = 0.648$. Hence, from Eq. (2.30),

$$
C_{D_i} = \frac{C_L^2}{\pi e AR} = \frac{(0.648)^2}{\pi(0.95)(6)} = 0.0234
$$

The sum of the skin friction and form drag (pressure drag due to flow separation for the wing) is approximately given by the airfoil profile drag coefficient, plotted in Fig. 2.6b. From these data, when the airfoil is at $6^\circ$ angle of attack ($c_l = 0.85$), the value of $c_d$ is 0.0076 (assuming a Reynolds number on the order of $9 \times 10^6$). Hence, for the finite wing, the total drag coefficient is given by

$$
C_D = c_d + C_{D_i} = 0.0076 + 0.0234 = 0.0312
$$

The lift-to-drag ratio is

$$
\frac{L}{D} = \frac{C_L}{C_D} = \frac{0.648}{0.031} = 20.9
$$

*Note:* Recall from Example 2.3 that for the *airfoil* at $\alpha = 6^\circ$, $L/D = 111.8$, much higher than that for the finite wing. The dramatic reduction of $L/D$ between the airfoil value and the finite-wing value is completely due to the finite-wing induced drag.

## DESIGN CAMEO

Aspect ratio is one of the most important design features of an airplane. For subsonic airplane design, it is a major factor in determining the maximum value of $L/D$ at cruise conditions, which in turn has a major impact on the maximum range of an airplane (discussed in Chapter 5). Everything else being equal, the higher the aspect ratio, the higher the maximum $L/D$. Of course, in any airplane design process, not everything else is equal. As noted earlier, as the design aspect ratio is increased, the wing structure must be made stronger. This increases the weight of the airplane, which is an undesirable feature. So the airplane designer is faced

*(continued)*