CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight 229

It is interesting to note that, as described in Chapter 3 and as summarized in Fig. 3.29, both $P$ and $P_s$ in Eqs. (5.48) and (5.49) are relatively constant with $V_\infty$. By assuming a variable-pitch propeller such that the variation of $\eta_{pr}$ with $V_\infty$ is minimized, Eqs. (5.48) and (5.49) show that $T_A$ decreases as $V_\infty$ increases. This is consistent with the qualitative thrust available curve in Fig. 5.13, which shows maximum $T_A$ at zero velocity and a decrease in $T_A$ as $V_\infty$ increases.

## 5.5.2 Jet-Propelled Aircraft

Turbojet and turbofan engines are rated in terms of thrust. Hence, for such power plants, $T_A$ is the germane quantity for the analysis of airplane performance.

The turbojet engine is discussed in Section 3.4, where it was shown that, for *subsonic speeds*,

$$
T_A \approx \text{constant with } V_\infty
$$

and for *supersonic speeds*

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_{\text{Mach }1}} = 1 + 1.18(M_\infty - 1)
\qquad [3.21]
$$

The effect of altitude on $T_A$ is given by Eq. (3.19)

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_0} = \frac{\rho}{\rho_0}
\qquad [3.19]
$$

where $(T_A)_0$ is the thrust available at sea level and $\rho_0$ is the standard sea-level density.

The turbofan engine is discussed in Section 3.5. Unlike the turbojet, the thrust of a turbofan is a function of velocity. For the high-bypass-ratio turbofans commonly used for civil transports, thrust decreases with increasing velocity. (This is analogous to the thrust decrease with velocity for propellers sketched in Fig. 5.13, which makes sense because the large fan on a high-bypass-ratio turbofan is functioning much as a propeller.) Several relationships for the thrust variation with velocity (or Mach number) are given in Section 3.5. For example, Eq. (3.23) shows a functional relationship

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_{V=0}} = AM_\infty^{-n}
\qquad [3.23]
$$

where $(T_A)_{V=0}$ is the static thrust available (thrust at zero velocity) at standard sea level, and $A$ and $n$ are functions of altitude, obtained by correlating the data for a given engine. On the other hand, for a low-bypass-ratio turbofan, the thrust variation with velocity is much closer to that of a turbojet, essentially constant at subsonic speeds and increasing with velocity at supersonic speeds.

The altitude variation of thrust for a high-bypass-ratio civil turbofan is correlated in Eq. (3.25)

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_0} = \left[\frac{\rho}{\rho_0}\right]^m
\qquad [3.25]
$$

where $(T_A)_0$ is the thrust available at sea level and $\rho_0$ is standard sea-level density.