# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

205

**Table 5.1**

| $V_\infty$ (ft/s) | $C_L$ | $C_D$ | $T_R$ (lb) |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| 300 | 1.9172 | 0.3090 | 11,768 |
| 400 | 1.0784 | 0.1080 | 7,313 |
| 500 | 0.6902 | 0.0531 | 5,617 |
| 600 | 0.4793 | 0.0334 | 5,084 |
| 700 | 0.3521 | 0.0249 | 5,166 |
| 800 | 0.2696 | 0.0208 | 5,636 |
| 900 | 0.2130 | 0.0186 | 6,384 |
| 1,000 | 0.1725 | 0.0174 | 7,354 |
| 1,100 | 0.1426 | 0.0166 | 8,512 |
| 1,200 | 0.1198 | 0.0161 | 9,838 |
| 1,300 | 0.1021 | 0.0158 | 11,321 |

The results are plotted in Fig. 5.4 as the solid curve.

Let us examine the trends shown in Table 5.1 and in Fig. 5.4. Keep in mind that the drag polar for this graph, namely $C_D = 0.015 + 0.08C_L^2$, does not account for the rapid drag divergence due to wave drag that would occur at a free-stream Mach number of about 0.85 (the maximum operating Mach number of the Gulfstream IV is 0.88, as listed in Ref. 36). Hence the portion of the $T_R$ curve shown in Fig. 5.4 for $M_\infty > 0.85$ is more academic than real. However, this does not compromise the important points discussed below:

First, note the variation of $C_L$ with $V_\infty$ as tabulated in Table 5.1. At the lowest values of $V_\infty$, $C_L$ is very large; but as $V_\infty$ increases, $C_L$ decreases fairly rapidly. This is because for steady, level flight $L = W$ and

$$
L = W = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L
$$

At very low velocity, the necessary lift is generated by flying at a high lift coefficient, hence at a high angle of attack. However, as $V_\infty$ increases, a progressively lower $C_L$ is required to sustain the weight of the airplane because the necessary lift is generated progressively more by the increasing dynamic pressure $\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2$. Hence, as $V_\infty$ increases, the angle of attack of the airplane progressively decreases, as sketched in Fig. 5.4.

With the above ideas in mind, we can now explain *why* the thrust required curve is shaped as it is—with $T_R$ first *decreasing* with increasing velocity, reaching a minimum value, and then increasing as velocity further increases. To help us in this explanation, we write the drag as

$$
D = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_D
$$