# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

line theory for high-aspect-ratio wings. Comment on the different between the two results. Assume a span efficiency factor $e_1 = 1.0$.

Consider the wing described in Problem 2.5, except now consider the wing to be swept at $35^\circ$. Calculate the lift coefficient at an angle of attack of $5^\circ$ for $M_\infty = 0.7$. Comparing this with the result of Problem 2.5b, comment on the effect of wing sweep on the lift coefficient. **2.7**

Consider a wing with a thin, symmetric airfoil section in a Mach 2 airflow at an angle of attack of $1.5^\circ$. Calculate the lift coefficient **2.8**  
(a) For the airfoil section.  
(b) For the wing if it is a straight wing with an aspect ratio of 2.56.  
(c) For the wing if it is swept at an angle of $60^\circ$, with an aspect ratio of 2.56 and a taper ratio of unity. [Note: These are approximately the characteristics of the wing for the BAC (English Electric) Lightning supersonic fighter designed and built in England during the 1960s.]

The Anglo-French Concorde supersonic transport has an ogival delta wing with aspect ratio of 1.7. Assuming a triangular planform shape, estimate the low-speed lift coefficient for this wing at an angle of attack of $25^\circ$. **2.9**

Consider inviscid supersonic flow over a two-dimensional flat plate. **2.10**  
(a) What is the value of the maximum lift-to-drag ratio?  
(b) At what angle of attack does it occur?

Consider viscous supersonic flow over a two-dimensional flat plate. **2.11**  
(a) Derive an expression for the maximum lift-to-drag ratio.  
(b) At what angle of attack does it occur?  
In parts (a) and (b), couch your results in terms of the skin-friction drag coefficient, $c_{d,f}$ and free-stream Mach number. Assume, that $c_{d,f}$ is independent of the angle of attack.

Estimate the zero-lift drag coefficient of the General Dynamics F-102. **2.12**