CHAPTER 7 • The Philosophy of Airplane Design 391

heavier-than-air flying machine in the nineteenth century were dominated by two questions: (1) Can enough aerodynamic lift be produced in a practical manner to exceed the weight? (2) If so, can it be done without producing so much drag that the power plant required to produce the opposing thrust would be impractically large and heavy? In particular, Lilienthal, Langley, and the Wright brothers were acutely aware of the importance of weight; they knew that more weight meant more drag, which dictated an engine with more power, which meant even more weight. In the conceptual design of an airplane, we cannot go any further until we have a first estimate of the takeoff gross weight.

## 7.3.3 Critical Performance Parameters

The design requirements stipulate the required performance of the new airplane. In Chapters 5 and 6, we found out that airplane performance is critically dependent on several parameters, especially (1) maximum lift coefficient $(C_L)_{\max}$; (2) lift-to-drag ratio $L/D$, usually at cruise; (3) wing loading $W/S$; and (4) thrust-to-weight ratio $T/W$. We saw in particular how $W/S$ and $T/W$ appeared in many governing equations for airplane performance. Therefore, the next pivot point is the calculation of first estimates for $W/S$ and $T/W$ that are necessary to achieve the performance as stipulated by the requirements. In the subsequent chapters, we will see how these first estimates can be made.

## 7.3.4 Configuration Layout

The configuration layout is a drawing of the shape and size (dimensions) of the airplane as it has evolved to this stage. The critical performance parameters (Section 7.3.3) in combination with the initial weight estimate (Section 7.3.2) give enough information to approximately size the airplane and to draw the configuration.

## 7.3.5 Better Weight Estimate

By this stage, the overall size and shape of the airplane are coming more into focus. Because of the dominant role played by weight, the pivot point at this stage is an improved estimate of weight, based upon the performance parameters determined in Section 7.3.3, a detailed component weight breakdown based on the configuration layout in Section 7.3.4, and a more detailed estimate of the fuel weight necessary to meet the requirements.

## 7.3.6 Performance Analysis

At this pivot point, the airplane as drawn in Section 7.3.4 is put through a preliminary performance analysis using the techniques (or the equivalent) discussed in Chapters 5 and 6. This pivot point is where “the rubber meets the road”—where the configuration