CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight 301

Another consideration has to do with the flight velocity necessary for maximum range. In Example 5.19, this velocity turned out to be a reasonably high value; the calculated velocity of 830.8 ft/s is equivalent to Mach 0.84. However, what happens when the velocity for maximum range turns out to be a fairly low value, considerably below the maximum velocity of the airplane? This would correspond to a low power setting for the engine—it would be throttled back considerably. To fly at such low power settings, hence low velocities, would result in an inordinately long time to arrive at the destination. Instead, the cruise velocity is set at some higher value in order to realize the full performance capability of the airplane, even though the range is reduced. This is analogous to driving your automobile on the highway. Your best fuel economy, that is, miles per gallon, usually occurs at a speed of between 40 and 50 mi/h. However, you will drive at the posted speed limit, say, 65 mi/h, in order to shorten your trip time, even though you will burn more gas to get to your destination. In the case of an airplane, to fly at higher velocity than that for maximum range is not as inefficient as one might think. For example, return to Fig. 5.11 where the aerodynamic ratios, including $C_L/C_D$ and $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$, are plotted versus velocity. Note that the maximum values are relatively flat peaks, and the values of $C_L/C_D$ and $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ at speeds of at least 200 ft/s faster are still fairly close to their maximum values. Although Fig. 5.11 is for a specific case, it is representative of the general situation. Even though a penalty in range is paid by flying faster than the best-range speed, the penalty is usually small and does not outweigh the advantage of a shorter flight time.

Related to the above considerations, Bernard Carson, a professor of aerospace engineering at the U.S. Naval Academy, suggested another figure of merit that combines the concept of long range and higher velocity (Ref. 51). Maximum range occurs when the number of pounds of fuel consumed *per mile* is minimized. Recognizing that the flight velocity at this condition could be too small for practical situations, Carson reasoned that a more appropriate combination of both speed and economy would be flight in which the number of pounds of fuel consumed *per unit of velocity* were minimized, that is, when

$$
\frac{|dW_f|}{V_\infty} \text{ is a minimum}
$$

Let us consider a propeller-driven airplane, which was the focus of Carson's study. From Eq. (5.144),

$$
\dot{W}_f=\frac{dW_f}{dt}=-cP
$$

or

$$
dW_f=-cP\,dt
$$

[5.158]

Since $V_\infty=ds/dt$ and $P=TV_\infty$, Eq. (5.158) can be written as

$$
dW_f=-\frac{cP\,ds}{V_\infty}=-\frac{cTV_\infty\,ds}{V_\infty}=-cT\,ds
$$

[5.159]