# CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

Also, the value of $D$ in Eqs. (6.110) and (6.111) can be increased by deploying spoilers, speed brakes, or drogue chutes. Note that in both Eqs. (6.110) and (6.111), $dV_\infty/dt$ will be a negative quantity; that is, the airplane will *decelerate* (obviously) during the landing ground run.

An expression for $s_g$ can be obtained in the same fashion as in Section 6.7.1. From Eq. (6.111),

$$
\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}
=
-\frac{g}{W}
\left[
T_{\mathrm{rev}}+\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2SC_D+\mu_r\left(W-\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2SC_L\right)
\right]
$$

$$
=
-g\left[
\frac{T_{\mathrm{rev}}}{W}+\mu_r+\frac{\rho_\infty}{2(W/S)}(C_D-\mu_r C_L)V_\infty^2
\right]
$$

$$
=
-g\left\{
\frac{T_{\mathrm{rev}}}{W}+\mu_r+\frac{\rho_\infty}{2(W/S)}
\left[
C_{D,0}+\Delta C_{D,0}+\left(k_1+\frac{G}{\pi eAR}\right)C_L^2-\mu_r C_L
\right]V_\infty^2
\right\}
\qquad [6.112]
$$

Defining the symbols

$$
J_T \equiv \frac{T_{\mathrm{rev}}}{W}+\mu_r
\qquad [6.113]
$$

$$
J_A \equiv \frac{\rho_\infty}{2(W/S)}
\left[
C_{D,0}+\Delta C_{D,0}+\left(k_1+\frac{G}{\pi eAR}\right)C_L^2-\mu_r C_L
\right]
\qquad [6.114]
$$

We can write Eq. (6.112) as

$$
\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}=-g\left(J_T+J_A V_\infty^2\right)
\qquad [6.115]
$$

Substituting Eq. (6.115) into Eq. (6.81), we have

$$
ds=\frac{d(V_\infty^2)}{2(dV_\infty/dt)}
=
-\frac{d(V_\infty^2)}{2g\left(J_T+J_A V_\infty^2\right)}
\qquad [6.116]
$$

Let us apply Eq. (6.116) beginning at the end of the free-roll segment shown in Fig. 6.17. Integrating Eq. (6.116) between the end of the roll, where $s=s_{fr}$ and $V_\infty=V_{\mathrm{TD}}$, and the complete stop, where $s=s_g$ and $V_\infty=0$, we have

$$
\int_{s_{fr}}^{s_g} ds
=
-
\int_{V_{\mathrm{TD}}}^{0}
\frac{d(V_\infty^2)}{2g\left(J_T+J_A V_\infty^2\right)}
$$

or

$$
s_g-s_{fr}
=
\int_0^{V_{\mathrm{TD}}}
\frac{d(V_\infty^2)}{2g\left(J_T+J_A V_\infty^2\right)}
\qquad [6.117]
$$

Equation (6.117) for landing is directly analogous to Eq. (6.89) for takeoff. Note that no simplifications have been made in obtaining Eq. (6.117); the values of $J_T$ and $J_A$ vary with $V_\infty$ during the ground roll.