# Constraints on $V_\infty$

Returning to Eqs. (6.9) and (6.11), which show that $R$ and $\omega$ depend only on $V_\infty$ and $n$, we have already stated that $n$ cannot be any arbitrary value. Although for high performance these equations dictate that $n$ should be as large as possible, there are definite limits on the value of $n$ that are associated with the design aspects of the airplane.

Equations (6.9) and (6.11) also show that for high performance $V_\infty$ should be as small as possible. However, $V_\infty$ cannot be reduced indefinitely without encountering stall. Hence, the stall limit is a constraint on $V_\infty$. Indeed, when the airplane is at a bank angle $\phi$, the stalling velocity is increased above that for straight and level flight. The stalling velocity is a function of the load factor. To show this, recall that

$$
L = nW = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L
$$

Hence,

$$
V_\infty = \sqrt{\frac{2nW}{\rho_\infty S C_L}}
\qquad \text{[6.24]}
$$

When $C_L = (C_L)_{\max}$ is inserted into Eq. (6.24), then $V_\infty = V_{\text{stall}}$.

$$
V_{\text{stall}} = \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{n}{(C_L)_{\max}}}
\qquad \text{[6.25]}
$$

Equation (6.25) is a more general result for $V_{\text{stall}}$ than that for straight and level flight given by Eq. (5.67). When $n = 1$ is inserted into Eq. (6.25), Eq. (5.67) is obtained. Hence, when the airplane is in a level turn with a load factor $n > 1$, the stalling velocity increases proportionally to $n^{1/2}$. This stalling velocity is a constraint on the minimum value of $V_\infty$ that can be inserted in Eqs. (6.9) and (6.11) for $R$ and $\omega$.

## 6.2.1 Minimum Turn Radius

With all the above discussion on the level turn in mind, we now return to Eq. (6.9) and ask: What is the smallest possible value of $R$ for a given airplane? The minimum $R$ does not necessarily correspond to $n_{\max} = n_M$ given by point $B$ in Fig. 6.2, because $R$ also depends on $V_\infty$, and the minimum $R$ may occur at a set of values $(n_{\max}, V_\infty)$ different from those at point $B$. Let us investigate this matter.

The conditions for minimum $R$ are found by setting $dR/dV_\infty = 0$. The algebra will be simpler if we deal with dynamic pressure, $q = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2$, rather than $V_\infty$. Hence, from Eq. (6.9), written in terms of $q_\infty$,

$$
R = \frac{2q_\infty}{g\rho_\infty\sqrt{n^2 - 1}}
\qquad \text{[6.26]}
$$