328

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

$$
n_{\max}=\frac{L}{D}\left(\frac{T}{W}\right)_{\max}
$$

[6.20]

For each point along the $n_{\max}$ curve in Fig. 6.2, there is a different value of $L/D$, consistent with Eq. (6.20). When $n_{\max}$ reaches its local maximum at point $B$—which is the *maximum of the maximum values of* $n$, denoted by $n_M$—the value of $L/D$ in Eq. (6.20) is at its maximum, that is,

$$
n_M=\left(\frac{L}{D}\right)_{\max}\left(\frac{T}{W}\right)_{\max}
$$

[6.21]

For the Gulfstream treated in Chapter 5, we found in Example 5.4 that $(L/D)_{\max}=14.43$. Inserting this value along with $(T/W)_{\max}=0.3795$ into Eq. (6.21) yields $n_M=(14.43)(0.3795)=5.47$, which is consistent with the value of $n_{\max}$ at point $B$ in Fig. 6.2.

There is another, completely different constraint on the load factor having to do with the maximum lift coefficient $(C_L)_{\max}$. In Fig. 6.2, for each point on the $n_{\max}$ curve obtained from Eq. (6.18), there is a different value of $C_L$; indeed, as $V_{\infty}$ decreases, $C_L$ increases. It is easy to see why. As $V_{\infty}$ (and hence the dynamic pressure) decreases, the magnitude of $L$ is maintained (or increased) by increasing $C_L$, that is, by increasing the angle of attack of the airplane. Obviously, $C_L$ cannot increase indefinitely—it is limited by its maximum value at stall $(C_L)_{\max}$. The velocity at which $(C_L)_{\max}$ is reached is denoted by point $A$ in Fig. 6.2. At lower velocities, less than at point $A$, the maximum load factor is constrained by $(C_L)_{\max}$, not by available thrust.

When $n_{\max}$ is constrained by $(C_L)_{\max}$, the value of $n_{\max}$ can be obtained as follows.

$$
n \equiv \frac{L}{W}=\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}V_{\infty}^2 C_L\frac{S}{W}
$$

[6.22]

In Eq. (6.22), when $C_L=(C_L)_{\max}$, then $n=n_{\max}$.

$$
n_{\max}=\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}V_{\infty}^2\frac{(C_L)_{\max}}{W/S}
$$

[6.23]

The solid curve to the left of point $A$ in Fig. 6.2 is obtained from Eq. (6.23). It represents the value of $n_{\max}$ at low velocities where $(C_L)_{\max}$ is the constraint. In Fig. 6.2, a value of $(C_L)_{\max}=1.2$ is assumed. This is representative of a jet transport with moderate wing sweep and no high-lift devices employed.

Values of $\phi_{\max}$ corresponding to values of $n_{\max}$ can be obtained from Eq. (6.12), written as

$$
\cos \phi_{\max}=\frac{1}{n_{\max}}
$$

These values of $\phi_{\max}$ are also plotted in Fig. 6.2 as a function of $V_{\infty}$. It is interesting to note that the variation of $\phi_{\max}$ is relatively flat over a wide range of velocity.

Finally, we note that the structural design limits of a given airplane represent a practical, mechanical constraint on the load factor. This constraint will be discussed in Section 6.5.