340

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

Pulldown
$$
\omega=\frac{g(n+1)}{V_{\infty}}
$$
[6.46]

In the limit of large load factor, these equations reduce to the same form, namely,

$$
\omega=\frac{gn}{V_{\infty}}
$$
[6.48]

The physical reason why the same form for $R$ is obtained in the limiting case of large $n$ for all three maneuvers is that the magnitude of the lift is so large that the weight is unimportant by comparison. In all three cases, the lift vector dominates the dynamics. The same is true for $\omega$.

The pull-up and pulldown maneuvers considered in Section 6.3 are treated as *instantaneous*, in contrast to the sustained maneuver (sustained turn) discussed in Section 6.2. For instantaneous maneuvers, the thrust limitations discussed in Section 6.2 are not relevant. Why? An instantaneous maneuver is initiated by a sudden change in lift, achieved by a sudden increase in angle of attack. The drag is suddenly increased as well, causing the airplane to experience a deceleration. However, at the instant the maneuver is initiated, the instantaneous velocity is $V_{\infty}$ as it appears in Eqs. (6.41), (6.42), (6.45), and (6.46), and as it appears in the limit impressions given by Eqs. (6.47) and (6.48). So even though the airplane will feel a sudden increase in drag and therefore a sudden deceleration, the velocity decreases only after the instant of initiation of the maneuver. Any increase in thrust to counteract the increase in drag comes “after the fact.” So, by definition of an instantaneous maneuver, the type of thrust limitation discussed in regard to the sustained turn in Section 6.2 is not relevant to the instantaneous maneuver.

Let us use the limiting equations, Eqs. (6.47) and (6.48), to examine those characteristics of the airplane which are important to an instantaneous maneuver. In this category we will include the instantaneous turn as well as the pull-up or pulldown—Eqs. (6.47) and (6.48) govern all three types of instantaneous maneuvers in the limit of large $n$. In these equations, $V_{\infty}$ can be replaced as follows.

Since
$$
L=\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}V_{\infty}^{2}SC_{L}
$$

then
$$
V_{\infty}^{2}=\frac{2L}{\rho_{\infty}SC_{L}}
$$
[6.49]

Substituting Eq. (6.49) into Eqs. (6.47) and (6.48), we have

$$
R=\frac{V_{\infty}^{2}}{gn}=\frac{2L}{\rho_{\infty}SC_{L}gn}=\frac{2L}{\rho_{\infty}SC_{L}g(L/W)}=\frac{2}{\rho_{\infty}C_{L}g}\frac{W}{S}
$$
[6.50]

and

$$
\omega=\frac{gn}{V_{\infty}}=\frac{gn}{\sqrt{2L/(\rho_{\infty}SC_{L})}}=\frac{gn}{\sqrt{[2n/(\rho_{\infty}C_{L})](W/S)}}=g\sqrt{\frac{n\rho_{\infty}C_{L}}{2(W/S)}}
$$
[6.51]