# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

267

impact on drag; less lift means less drag due to lift. For a given velocity $V_\infty$, the drag in climbing flight is less than that for level flight. Quantitatively, we can write for steady climbing flight,

$$
C_L = \frac{L}{q_\infty S} = \frac{W \cos \theta}{q_\infty S}
$$

[5.82]

From the drag polar,

$$
D = q_\infty S C_D = q_\infty S \left( C_{D,0} + K C_L^2 \right)
$$

[5.83]

Substituting $C_L$ from Eq. (5.82) into Eq. (5.83), we have

$$
D = q_\infty S \left[ C_{D,0} + K \left( \frac{W \cos \theta}{q_\infty S} \right)^2 \right]
$$

or

$$
D = q_\infty S C_{D,0} + \frac{K W^2 \cos^2 \theta}{q_\infty S}
$$

[5.84]

The value of $D$ from Eq. (5.84) is the value that goes in Eq. (5.78) for rate of climb. Combining Eqs. (5.78) and (5.84), we have after some algebraic manipulations (the details are left for a homework problem)

$$
V_\infty \sin \theta = V_\infty \left[ \frac{T}{W} - \frac{1}{2} \rho_\infty V_\infty^2 \left( \frac{W}{S} \right)^{-1} C_{D,0} - \frac{W}{S} \frac{2K \cos^2 \theta}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2} \right]
$$

[5.85]

Note that in Eq. (5.85) the weight does not appear separately, but rather in the form of the thrust-to-weight ratio $T/W$ and the wing loading $W/S$. Once again we observe the importance of these two design parameters, this time in regard to climb performance.

Equation (5.85) is the key to the *exact* solution of the climb performance of an airplane. Unfortunately, it is unwieldy to solve. Note that $V_\infty$ and $\theta$ appear on both sides of the equation. In principle, for a given $V_\infty$, Eq. (5.85) can be solved by trial and error for $\theta$, hence yielding $R/C = V_\infty \sin \theta$ for the given value of $V_\infty$. Or, for a given value of $\theta$, Eq. (5.85) can be solved by trial and error for $V_\infty$, hence yielding $R/C = V_\infty \sin \theta$ for the given $\theta$.

Fortunately, for a preliminary performance analysis, this hard work is usually not necessary. Let us make the assumption that *for the drag expression only,* $\cos \theta \approx 1$. For example, in Eq. (5.84), set $\cos \theta = 1$. This assumption leads to remarkably accurate results for climb performance for climb angles as large as 50° degrees. Indeed, in their elegant analysis in Ref. 41, Mair and Birdsall show that for a climb angle of 50°, by making the assumption that $\cos \theta = 1$ in the drag expression, the error in the calculated climb angle is 2.5° or smaller, and the error in the calculated rate of climb is 3% or less. This is particularly fortuitous, because the normal climb angles of conventional airplanes are usually less than 15°. Hence, in the remainder of this section, we assume $\cos \theta = 1$ in the drag expression. A more general energy-based method which can be applied to accelerated climb and which accurately treats the case for any climb angle (even 90°) will be discussed in Chapter 6.