PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

Hopefully, this book will give you a better idea of how the aeronautical engineer mixes “engineering options on his technological palette and applies them to his canvas,” as nicely stated by Richard Smith in the quotation at the beginning of this chapter.

## 1.2 FOUR HISTORICAL PERIODS OF AIRPLANE DESIGN CHARACTERISTICS

Before we proceed to the technical aspects of airplane performance and design, it is useful to briefly survey the historical evolution of these aspects, in order to have a better appreciation of modern technology. In this section, the technical evolution of the airplane is divided into four eras: (1) pre-Wright attempts, (2) strut-and-wire biplanes, (3) mature propeller-driven airplanes, and (4) jet-propelled airplanes. We have room for only short discussions of these eras; for a more detailed presentation, see Ref. 2.

If you like aeronautical history, this chapter is for you. However, if you do not particularly want to read about history or do not see the value in doing so, this chapter is *especially* for you. Whether you like it or not, good airplane design requires a knowledge of previous designs, that is, a knowledge of history. Even the *Wright Flyer* in 1903 was as much evolutionary as it was revolutionary, because the Wright brothers drew from a prior century of aeronautical work by others. Throughout the twentieth century, most new airplane designs were evolutionary, depending greatly on previous airplanes. Indeed, even the most recent airplane designs, such as the Boeing 777 commercial transport and the F-22 supersonic military fighter, contain the “genes” of 200 years of flying machine design. If you are interested in learning about airplane design, you need to know about these genes. So no matter what your innate interest in reading history may be, this chapter is an essential part of your education in airplane design. Please read it and benefit from it, in this spirit.

### 1.2.1 Pre-Wright Era

Before the Wright brothers’s first flight, there were *no* successful airplane designs, hence *no* successful demonstrations of airplane performance. However, there were plenty of attempts. Perhaps the best way of gaining an appreciation of these attempts is to go through the following fanciful thought experiment. Imagine that you were born on a desolate island somewhere in the middle of the ocean, somehow completely devoid of any contact with the modern world—no television, radio, newspapers, magazines, etc. And imagine that for some reason you were possessed with the idea of flying through the air. What would you do? Would you immediately conceive of the idea of the modern airplane with a fixed wing, fuselage, and tail, propelled by some separate prime mover such as a reciprocating or jet engine? Certainly not! Most likely you would look at the skies, watch the birds, and then try to emulate the birds. To this end, you would fashion some kind of wings out of wood or feathers, strap these wings to your arms, climb to the roof of your hut, and jump off, flapping