214

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

The value of $(T_R/W)_{\min}$ is given by Eq. (5.19) as

$$
\left(\frac{T_R}{W}\right)_{\min}^2 = 4C_{D,0}K
$$

or

$$
\left(\frac{T_R}{W}\right)_{\min} = \sqrt{4C_{D,0}K}
\qquad \text{[5.21]}
$$

Substituting Eq. (5.21) into Eq. (5.20), we have

$$
V_{(T_R)\min} = \left(\frac{\sqrt{4C_{D,0}K}}{\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}
$$

or

$$
V_{(T_R)\min} = V_{(L/D)\max} = \left(\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\sqrt{\frac{K}{C_{D,0}}}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}
\qquad \text{[5.22]}
$$

In Eq. (5.22), by stating that $V_{(T_R)\min} = V_{(L/D)\max}$, we are recalling that the velocity for minimum $T_R$ is also the velocity for maximum $L/D$, as shown in Fig. 5.6. Indeed, since $T_R = D$ and $L = W$ for steady, level flight, Eq. (5.21) can be written as

$$
\left(\frac{D}{L}\right)_{\min} = \sqrt{4C_{D,0}K}
\qquad \text{[5.23]}
$$

Since the minimum value of $D/L$ is the reciprocal of the maximum value of $L/D$, then Eq. (5.23) becomes

$$
\left(\frac{L}{D}\right)_{\max} = \frac{1}{\sqrt{4C_{D,0}K}}
\qquad \text{[5.24]}
$$

Surveying the results associated with minimum $T_R$ (associated with point 3 on the curve in Fig. 5.9) as given by Eqs. (5.21), (5.22), and (5.24), we again see the role played by the parameters $T_R/W$, $W/S$, and the drag polar. From Eq. (5.21), we see that the value of $(T_R/W)_{\min}$ depends *only* on the drag polar, that is, the values of $C_{D,0}$ and $K$. From Eq. (5.22), the velocity for $(T_R)_{\min}$ depends on the altitude (via $\rho_\infty$), the drag polar (via $C_{D,0}$ and $K$), and the wing loading $W/S$. Notice in Eqs. (5.21) and (5.22) that the airplane weight does not appear separately, but rather always appears as part of a ratio, namely $T_R/W$ and $W/S$.

Looking more closely at Eqs. (5.21) and (5.22), we see that the value of $(T_R)_{\min}$ is independent of altitude, but that the velocity at which it occurs increases with increasing altitude (decreasing $\rho_\infty$). This relationship is sketched in Fig. 5.10. Also, the effect of increasing the zero-lift drag coefficient $C_{D,0}$ is to increase $(T_R)_{\min}$ and to decrease the velocity at which it occurs. The effect of increasing the drag-due-to-lift factor $K$ (say by decreasing the aspect ratio) is to increase $(T_R)_{\min}$ and increase the