220

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

or

$$
\frac{W}{S}=\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}V_{(L/D)_{\max}}^{2}\sqrt{C_{D,0}/K}
$$

[5.33]

Solving Eq. (5.33) for the velocity, we obtain

$$
V_{(L/D)_{\max}}=\left(\frac{2}{\rho_{\infty}}\sqrt{\frac{K}{C_{D,0}}}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}
$$

[5.34]

Equation (5.34) is *identical* to the result shown in Eq. (5.22). However, Eq. (5.22) was obtained from a consideration of minimum $T_R$ whereas Eq. (5.34) was obtained strictly on the basis of the aerodynamic relationships that hold at maximum $L/D$, completely separate from any consideration of thrust required. The only restriction on Eqs. (5.22) and (5.34) is that they hold only for straight and level flight.

The value of $(L/D)_{\max}$ and the flight velocity at which it is attained are important considerations in the analysis of range and endurance for a given airplane. Indeed, as we will show in Section 5.11, the maximum range for an airplane powered with a propeller/reciprocating engine combination is directly proportional to $(L/D)_{\max}$. The maximum endurance for a jet-propelled airplane is also proportional to $(L/D)_{\max}$. These matters will be made clear in Section 5.11. We mention them here to underscore the importance of the lift-to-drag ratio; $L/D$ is clearly a measure of the aerodynamic efficiency of the airplane.

There are other aerodynamic ratios that play a role in airplane performance. For example, in Section 5.11 we will show that maximum endurance for a propeller/reciprocating engine airplane is proportional to the maximum value of $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$, and that the maximum range for a jet airplane is proportional to the maximum value of $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$. Because of the importance of these ratios, let us examine the aerodynamic relations associated with each.

First, consider $(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}$. By replacing $C_D$ with the drag polar, this expression can be written as

$$
\frac{C_L^{3/2}}{C_D}=\frac{C_L^{3/2}}{C_{D,0}+KC_L^2}
$$

[5.35]

To find the conditions that hold for a maximum value of $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$, differentiate Eq. (5.35) with respect to $C_L$, and set the result equal to zero.

$$
\frac{d\left(C_L^{3/2}/C_D\right)}{dC_L}
=
\frac{(C_{D,0}+KC_L^2)\left(\frac{3}{2}C_L^{1/2}\right)-C_L^{3/2}(2KC_L)}{C_{D,0}+KC_L^2}
=0
$$

$$
\frac{3}{2}C_{D,0}C_L^{1/2}+\frac{3}{2}KC_L^{5/2}-2KC_L^{5/2}=0
$$

or

$$
C_{D,0}=\frac{1}{3}KC_L^2
$$

[5.36]