272

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

low-velocity range where drag due to lift is dominant, an increase in the design $W/S$ results in a decrease in $R/C$ at the same $V_\infty$. However, in the high-velocity range where zero-lift drag is dominant, an increase in $W/S$ results in an increase in $R/C$ at the same $V_\infty$.

The above considerations, gleaned from Eq. (5.86) for a given, arbitrary $V_\infty$, are rather general, and in some cases the trends are somewhat mixed. More specific information on the airplane design parameters that *optimize* climb performance can be obtained by studying the cases for *maximum* climb angle $\theta_{\max}$ and *maximum* rate of climb $(R/C)_{\max}$. We now turn our attention to these two specific cases.

## Maximum Climb Angle

Dividing Eq. (5.78) by $V_\infty$, we have

$$
\sin \theta = \frac{T}{W} - \frac{D}{W}
$$

[5.90]

From Eq. (5.76),

$$
W = \frac{L}{\cos \theta}
$$

[5.91]

Replace $W$ in the drag term of Eq. (5.90) by Eq. (5.91):

$$
\sin \theta = \frac{T}{W} - \frac{\cos \theta}{L/D}
$$

[5.92]

By making the assumption that $\cos \theta = 1$, Eq. (5.92) becomes

$$
\sin \theta = \frac{T}{W} - \frac{1}{L/D}
$$

[5.93]

Consider the case of a jet-propelled airplane where the thrust is essentially constant with velocity. Then Eq. (5.93) dictates that the maximum climb angle $\theta_{\max}$ will occur when the lift-to-drag ratio is a maximum, that is, *for a jet-propelled airplane*,

$$
\sin \theta_{\max} = \frac{T}{W} - \frac{1}{(L/D)_{\max}}
$$

[5.94]

Recalling Eq. (5.30) for $(L/D)_{\max}$, we see that Eq. (5.94) can be written as

$$
\sin \theta_{\max} = \frac{T}{W} - \sqrt{4C_{D,0}K}
$$

[5.95]

The flight velocity corresponding to $\theta_{\max}$ is obtained as follows. From Eq. (5.76)

$$
L = W \cos \theta = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L
$$

[5.96]

For maximum $L/D$, Eq. (5.29) holds.

$$
C_L = \sqrt{\frac{C_{D,0}}{K}}
$$

[5.29]