480

PART 3 • Airplane Design

that time a professor at Cal Tech who was hired by Douglas as a consultant on the DC-1 aerodynamics, said later on: “If the wind tunnel tests had not been made, it is very possible that the airplane would have been unstable, because all the previous engineering estimates and normal investigations had indicated that the original arrangement was satisfactory.” [We note that this is the same Bailey Oswald who introduced the Oswald efficiency $e_o$ defined in Eq. (8.43). Beginning in 1928, Arthur Raymond taught a class on the practical aspects of airplane design at Cal Tech, and Oswald attended the class in the first year. The two became trusted colleagues. Finally, reflecting on his first action upon returning to Santa Monica after his trip to the TWA offices in New York, Raymond wrote later (Ref. 60): “The first thing I did when I got back was to contact Ozzie (Oswald) and ask him to come to Santa Monica to help us, for that one-engine-out case still bothered me. I told him we only needed him for a little while, but he stayed until retirement in 1959, and ultimately had a large section working for him.”]

On July 1, 1933, the prototype DC-1 was ready for its first flight. It took less than one year from the day the original TWA letter arrived in Douglas’s office to the day that the DC-1 was ready to fly. The weather was bright and clear, with a gentle breeze blowing in from the ocean. At exactly 12:36 PM the DC-1, with test pilot Carl Cover at the controls, lifted off the runway at Clover Field in Santa Monica, California. The first flight almost ended in disaster. As Cover put the DC-1 in a climb about 30 s after takeoff, the left engine quit; a moment later, the right engine sputtered to a stop. However, as the airplane nosed over, the engines started again. Cover started to climb again, but once again the engines stopped. They started again when the nose dipped down. For the next 10 min, in a display of expert piloting, Cover was able to coax the DC-1 up to 1,500 ft, following a sawtooth flight path alternating between a climb, the engines cutting off, a noseover, the engines starting again, another climb until the engines again quit, etc. At 1,500 ft, the DC-1 was at a safe enough altitude to allow Cover to execute a gentle bank and to return safely to the runway.

Nobody knew what was wrong. The airplane and the engines appeared to be mechanically sound. Over the next 5 days the engines were taken apart and reassembled more than a dozen times. On the test block, the engines would run perfectly. Finally, the trouble was found in the carburetors that metered fuel to the engines—they had been installed backward, in such a fashion that when the airplane climbed, the gasoline could not flow uphill, and the fuel was automatically cut off. The carburetors were then rotated 180°, and the trouble disappeared. The rest of the DC-1 flight test program was carried out successfully. The airplane met all its flight specifications, including the one-engine-out performance at the highest altitudes encountered along the TWA routes. It was a wonderful example of successful, enlightened airplane design.

An interesting contrast can be made in regard to the time from design conception to the first flight. During World War I, some airplanes were designed by laying out chalk markings on the floor and rolling out the finished airplane 2 weeks later. Fifteen years later, the process was still relatively quick, that for the DC-1 being about 11 months. Compare this to the design time for today’s modern civil and military airplanes, which sometimes takes close to a decade between design conception and first flight.

Only one DC-1 was built. The production version, which involved lengthening the fuselage by 2 ft and adding two more seats to make it a 14-passenger airplane, was