# CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

By substituting Eq. (6.8) into Eq. (6.7), the turn radius is expressed as

$$
R=\frac{V_\infty^2}{g\sqrt{n^2-1}}
$$

[6.9]

From Eq. (6.9), the turn radius depends only on $V_\infty$ and $n$. To obtain the smallest possible $R$, we want

1. The highest possible load factor (i.e., the highest possible $L/W$).
2. The lowest possible velocity.

To obtain an expression for the turn rate $\omega$, return to Fig. 6.1 and recall from physics that angular velocity is related to $R$ and $V_\infty$ as

$$
\omega=\frac{d\psi}{dt}=\frac{V_\infty}{R}
$$

[6.10]

Replacing $R$ in Eq. (6.10) with Eq. (6.9), we have

$$
\omega=\frac{g\sqrt{n^2-1}}{V_\infty}
$$

[6.11]

From Eq. (6.11), to obtain the largest possible turn rate, we want

1. The highest possible load factor.
2. The lowest possible velocity.

These are exactly the same criteria for the smallest possible $R$.

This leads to the following questions. For a given airplane in a level turn, what is the highest possible load factor? Equations (6.9) and (6.11) show that $R$ and $\omega$ depend only on $V_\infty$ and $n$—design characteristics such as $W/S$, $T/W$, and the drag polar, as well as altitude, do not appear explicitly. The fact is that even though the expression for $R$ and $\omega$ in general contains only $V_\infty$ and $n$, there are specific *constraints* on the values of $V_\infty$ and $n$ for a given airplane, and these constants *do* depend on the design characteristics and altitude. Let us examine these constraints.

## Constraints on Load Factor

Return to Fig. 6.1, and note that as the airplane's bank angle $\phi$ is increased, the magnitude of the lift must increase. As $L$ increases, *the drag due to lift increases*. Hence, to maintain a sustained level turn at a given velocity and a given bank angle $\phi$, the thrust must be increased from its straight and level flight value to compensate for the increase in drag. If this increase in thrust pushes the required thrust beyond the maximum thrust available from the power plant, then the level turn cannot be sustained at the given velocity and bank angle. In this case, to maintain a turn at the given $V_\infty$, $\phi$ will have to be decreased in order to decrease the drag sufficiently that the thrust required does not exceed the thrust available. Since