422

PART 3 • Airplane Design

Disadvantages:

1. The heavy engine is at the back, which shifts the center of gravity rearward, hence reducing longitudinal stability.
2. Propeller is more likely to be damaged by flying debris at landing.
3. Engine cooling problems are more severe.

The *Wright Flyer* was a pusher aircraft (Fig. 1.3). However, over the past century of airplane design, the tractor configuration has been the prevalent choice. Because we have a rather large, powerful reciprocating engine for our airplane design, we wish to minimize any engine cooling problems. Therefore, we will be traditional and choose the tractor configuration.

## 8.6.2 Wing Configuration

Here, we have two considerations, the geometric shape of the wing and its location relative to the fuselage. First, we consider the shape.

Referring to Fig. 8.6, the wing geometry is described by (a) aspect ratio, (b) wing sweep, (c) taper ratio, (d) variation of airfoil shape and thickness along the span, and (e) geometric twist (change in airfoil chord incidence angle along the span). The aspect ratio is given by $b^2/S$, as shown in Fig. 8.6a. There are two sweep angles of importance, the leading-edge sweep angle $\Lambda_{LE}$ and the sweep angle of the quarter-chord line $\Lambda_{c/4}$, as shown in Fig. 8.6b. The leading-edge sweep angle is most relevant to supersonic airplanes because to reduce wave drag, the leading edge should be swept behind the Mach cone (see Fig. 2.30 and the related discussion in Chapter 2). The sweep angle of the quarter-chord line $\Lambda_{c/4}$ is of relevance to high-speed subsonic airplanes near the speed of sound. The taper ratio is the ratio of the tip chord to the root chord $c_t/c_r$, illustrated in Fig. 8.6c. The possible variation of airfoil shape and thickness along the span is illustrated in Fig. 8.6d. Geometric twist is illustrated in Fig. 8.6e, where the root and tip chord lines are at different incidence angles. Shown in Fig. 8.6e is the case when the tip chord incidence angle is smaller than that of the root chord; this configuration is called *washout*. The opposite case, when the tip is at a higher incidence angle than the root, is called *wash-in*.

Let us proceed with the determination of the planform shape (top view) of the wing of our airplane. The decision in regard to a swept wing versus an unswept wing is easy. The maximum design velocity of our airplane is 250 mi/h—far below the transonic regime; hence, we have no aerodynamic requirement for a swept wing. We choose to use a conventional straight wing. For minimum induced drag, we noted in Section 2.8.3 that we want to have a spanwise elliptical lift distribution, which for an untwisted wing implies an elliptical planform shape. However, the higher production costs associated with a wing with curved leading and trailing edges in the planform view are usually not justified in view of the cheaper costs of manufacturing wings with straight leading and trailing edges. Moreover, by choosing the correct taper ratio, the elliptical lift distribution can be closely approximated. Recall from Eq. (2.31) that the span efficiency factor $e$ is given by the ratio $1/(1 + \delta)$, where $\delta$ is plotted in Fig. 2.39 as a function of aspect ratio and taper ratio. Reflecting again on Fig. 2.39, we