CHAPTER 7 • The Philosophy of Airplane Design

Requirements for a new airplane design are as unique and different from one airplane to another as fingerprints are from one human being to another. Hence, we cannot stipulate in this section a specific, standard form to use to write requirements—there is none. All we can say is that for any new airplane design, there must be *some* established requirements which serve as the jumping-off point for the design process, and which serve as the focused goal for the completed design. Typical aspects that are frequently stipulated in the requirements are some combination of the following:

1. Range.
2. Takeoff distance.
3. Stalling velocity.
4. Endurance [usually important for reconnaissance airplanes; an overall dominating factor for the new group of very high-altitude uninhabited air vehicles (UAVs) that are of great interest at present].
5. Maximum velocity.
6. Rate of climb,
7. For dogfighting combat aircraft, maximum turn rate and sometimes minimum turn radius.
8. Maximum load factor.
9. Service ceiling.
10. Cost.
11. Reliability and maintainability.
12. Maximum size (so that the airplane will fit inside standard hangers and/or be able to fit in a standard gate at airline terminals).

These are just a few examples, to give you an idea as to what constitutes “requirements.” Today, the design requirements also include a host of details associated with both the interior and exterior mechanical aspects of the airplane. An interesting comparison is between the one page of U.S. Army Signal Corps requirements (reproduced in Fig. 7.5) set forth on January 20, 1908 for the first army airplane, and the thick, detailed general design document that the government usually produces today for establishing the requirements for new military aircraft. (The requirements shown in Fig. 7.5 were satisfied by the Wright brothers' type A airplane. This airplane was purchased by the Army, and became known as the Wright *Military Flyer*.)

## 7.3.2 Weight of the Airplane—First Estimate

No airplane can get off the ground unless it can produce a lift greater than its weight. And no airplane design process can “get off the ground” without a first estimate of the gross takeoff weight. The fact that a weight estimate, albeit crude, is the next pivot point after the requirements is also satisfying from an historical point of view. Starting with George Cayley in 1799, the efforts to design a successful