# 9.2.4 Interim Summary

The three airplanes considered in this section are good examples of subsonic/transonic jet aircraft. The following is a summary of the design and performance characteristics of these airplanes.

|  | B-47 | 707 | 727 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| $S$ (ft$^2$) | 1,428 | 2,400 | 1,560 |
| $b$ (ft) | 116 | 130 | 108 |
| AR | 9.43 | 7.04 | 7.5 |
| $W_0$ (lb) | 206,700 | 257,000 | 160,000 |
| $V_\infty$ (mi/h) | 606 | 623 | 632 |
| Range (mi) | 4,100 | 4,650 | 2,690 |
| Takeoff distance to clear 35-ft obstacle (ft) | — | 10,550 | 7,800 |
| Landing distance from 50-ft height (ft) | — | 6,320 | 4,910 |
| Service ceiling (ft) | 40,500 | 31,500 | 36,500 |
| $R/C$ at sea level (ft/min) | — | 1,400 | 2,900 |
| $V_{\text{stall}}$ (flaps down) (mi/h) | — | 128 | 114 |
| $W/S$ (lb/ft$^2$) | 145 | 107 | 103 |
| $T/W$ | 0.21 | 0.21 | 0.26 |

One of the most important intellectual results obtained from the design of any airplane is usually a list of “lessons learned”—experience that can be applied to future designs. John Steiner, Boeing vice president, summarizes in Refs. 64 and 65 the lessons learned by Boeing during the course of its design of the early jet transports. In terms of the market for such airplanes, he itemizes:

1. The most important single element of success is to listen closely to what the customer perceives as her or his requirements and to have the will and ability to be responsive.

2. An airline airplane is only as good as its economics—its cost per seat-mile, its appeal to its passengers and the resultant load factor benefit, and its return on investment to its airline owner.

These lessons learned are not necessarily technically based, but they are important to the design of a successful jet transport, and hence are important to highlight in this book. On a more technical basis, Steiner continued with his lessons learned as follows:

3. Small elements of technical superiority are important, if, in aggregate, they add up to winning (versus losing) a sale—as they frequently will.

4. Technical superiority need not mean higher cost. In fact, it may mean just the opposite—lower cost.