and

$$
F_N = \frac{W_0 x_2}{x_3} = \frac{(5,158)(1.12)}{6.74} = 857 \text{ lb}
$$

Hence, the load on the nosewheel is 857 lb, and the load on *each* main wheel is $F_M/2 = 4,301/2 = 2,150.5$ lb.

With this information, the tire sizes can be estimated. Raymer (Ref. 25) gives empirically determined relations for wheel diameter and width in terms of the load on each tire.

$$
\text{Wheel diameter or width (in)} = AW^B
$$

**[8.82]**

where, for general aviation airplanes, the values of $A$ and $B$ are as follows:

|  | A | B |
|---|---:|---:|
| Wheel diameter (in) | 1.51 | 0.349 |
| Wheel width (in) | 0.715 | 0.312 |

For our design, from Eq. (8.82) we have

Main wheels:

$$
\text{Diameter} = A \left(\frac{F_M}{2}\right)^B = 1.51 \left(\frac{4,301}{2}\right)^{0.349} = 21.98 \text{ in}
$$

$$
\text{Width} = A \left(\frac{F_M}{2}\right)^B = 0.715 \left(\frac{4,301}{2}\right)^{0.312} = 7.84 \text{ in}
$$

Nosewheel:

$$
\text{Diameter} = A F_N^B = 1.51(857)^{0.349} = 15.94 \text{ in}
$$

$$
\text{Width} = A F_N^B = 0.715(857)^{0.312} = 5.88 \text{ in}
$$

As in the case of the propeller, we must use off-the-shelf tires from the manufacturers. From a tire catalog, we would choose the tires that most closely match the sizes calculated above.

Before we end this section, please note a detail that we did not take into account, namely, the shift in the position of the center of gravity. In all our previous calculations, we assumed a fixed c.g. location. However, due to changes in the distribution of payload and fuel during the flight, the c.g. shifts position. In a more detailed analysis, we would estimate the most forward and rearward positions to be expected for the center of gravity. Among other things, this would affect the calculation of the maximum static loads carried by the wheels. In Eq. (8.80) for the load on the main wheels, $x_1$ would correspond to the most rearward position of the c.g.; and in Eq. (8.81) for the load on the nosewheel, $x_2$ would correspond to the most forward position of the center of gravity. However, we will not account for this effect in our calculations here.