304

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

Substituting Eq. (5.162) into Eq. (5.167), we have

$$
E=\int_{W_1}^{W_0}\frac{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}{c}\sqrt{\frac{\rho_{\infty}S\bar{C}_L}{2W}}\frac{C_L}{C_D}\frac{dW_f}{W}
$$

or

$$
E=\int_{W_1}^{W_0}\frac{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}{c}\sqrt{\frac{\rho_{\infty}S}{2}}\frac{C_L^{3/2}}{C_D}\frac{dW_f}{W^{3/2}}
$$

[5.168]

By making the assumptions of constant $\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}, c, \rho_{\infty}$, and $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$, Eq. (5.168) becomes

$$
E=\frac{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}{c}\sqrt{2\rho_{\infty}S}\frac{C_L^{3/2}}{C_D}\left(W_1^{-1/2}-W_0^{-1/2}\right)
$$

[5.169]

The contingencies associated with the assumptions leading to Eq. (5.169) are the same as those discussed in Section 5.13.3 in regard to the range equation.

We note from Eq. (5.169) that maximum endurance for a propeller-driven airplane corresponds to the following conditions:

1. Fly at maximum $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$.
2. Have the highest possible propeller efficiency.
3. Have the lowest possible specific fuel consumption.
4. Have the highest possible difference between $W_0$ and $W_1$ (i.e., carry a lot of fuel).
5. Fly at sea level, where $\rho_{\infty}$ is the largest value.

The flight conditions associated with $(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ have been discussed in Section 5.4.1. It follows that the theoretical maximum endurance for a propeller-driven airplane is obtained by flying at the velocity where zero-lift drag equals one-third of the drag due to lift

$$
C_{D,0}=\frac{1}{3}KC_L^2
$$

[5.36]

This velocity is given by Eq. (5.41).

$$
V_{(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}}=\left(\frac{2}{\rho_{\infty}}\sqrt{\frac{K}{3C_{D,0}}}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}
$$

[5.41]

Note that this velocity is *smaller* than that for maximum $L/D$ by the factor 0.76, as given in Eq. (5.42). The value of $(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}$ is given by Eq. (5.38):

$$
\left(\frac{C_L^{3/2}}{C_D}\right)_{\max}=\frac{1}{4}\left(\frac{3}{KC_{D,0}^{1/3}}\right)^{3/4}
$$

[5.38]