# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

with a compromise—one of many in the airplane design process (as discussed in Chapters 7 and 8). However, the point made here is that, during the interactive design process, if it becomes important to increase the design value of the maximum $L/D$, then one of the powerful tools available to the designer is an increase in aspect ratio.

*Fuselages* The fuselage by itself experiences substantial drag—a combination of skin-friction drag and pressure drag due to flow separation. The skin-friction drag is a direct function of the *wetted surface area* $S_w$, which is the area that would get wet if the fuselage were immersed in water. This makes physical sense because the shear stress is tugging at every square inch exposed to the airflow. The reference area used to define the drag coefficient is usually *not* the wetted surface area, which is fine because the reference area is just that—a reference quantity. But for some of our subsequent discussions it is useful to realize that the actual value of the aerodynamic skin-friction drag physically depends on the actual wetted surface area.

When the fuselage is mated to a wing and other appendages, the net drag is usually *not* the direct sum of the individual drags for each part. For example, the presence of the wing affects the airflow over the fuselage, and the fuselage affects the airflow over the wing. This sets up an interacting flow field over both bodies which changes the pressure distribution over both bodies. The net result is usually an increase in the pressure drag; this increase is called *interference drag*. Interference drag is almost always positive—the net drag of the combined bodies is almost always greater than the sum of the drags of the individual parts.

The prediction of interference drag is primarily based on previous experimental data. There are no analytical, closed-form expressions for such drag.

*Summary* For subsonic drag, the following definitions for different contributions to the total drag are summarized below.

*Skin-friction drag:* Drag due to frictional shear stress integrated over the surface.

*Pressure drag due to flow separation (form drag):* The drag due to the pressure imbalance in the drag direction caused by separated flow.

*Profile drag:* The sum of skin friction drag and form drag. (The term *profile drag* is usually used in conjunction with two-dimensional airfoils; it is sometimes called *section drag*.)

*Interference drag:* An additional pressure drag caused by the mutual interaction of the flow fields around each component of the airplane. The total drag of the combined body is usually greater than that of the sum of its individual parts; the difference is the interference drag.

*Parasite drag:* The term used for the profile drag for a complete airplane. It is that portion of the total drag associated with skin friction and pressure drag due to flow separation, integrated over the complete airplane surface. It *includes* interference drag. We have more to say about parasite drag in Section 2.9.