252

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

2. For a preliminary performance analyses of such airplanes, the two rather empirical approaches discussed in this section for the estimation of drag-divergence effects are useful.

## DESIGN CAMEO

An estimation of the variation of $C_D$ with $M_\infty$ through the transonic region, that is, a prediction of the drag-divergence curve, is one of the more imprecise aspects of the airplane preliminary design process. The approach illustrated in Example 5.11 is just one of several approximate techniques. Indeed, an examination of Eq. (5.63) indicates that as the sweep angle $\Lambda$ increases, $C_{D,W,0}$ increases, which is not the proper physical effect; $C_{DW0}$ should decrease as $\Lambda$ increases. Another approximation is given by Steven Brandt et al. in their recent book entitled *Introduction of Aeronautics: A Design Perspective*, where Eq. (5.63) is replaced by

$$
C_{D,W,0} = E_{WD}(0.74 + 0.37 \cos \Lambda)
$$

$$
\times \left(1 - 0.3\sqrt{M_\infty - M_{C,D,0,\max}}\right)(C_{D,W,0})_{\text{Sears-Haack}}
$$

where

$$
M_{C,D,0,\max} = \frac{1}{\cos^{0.2}\Lambda}
$$

For the Gulfstream IV, $\Lambda = 27^\circ 40'$. With this sweep angle and $M_\infty = 1.2$, the above equation yields

$$
C_{D,W,0} = 0.052
$$

This is compared with $C_{D,W,0} = 0.056$ obtained in Example 5.11. The equation given by Raymer, as used in Example 5.11, yields a more conservative result by 8%. Note that the formula given by Brandt shows the proper qualitative variation of $C_{D,W,0}$ with sweep angle; that is, $C_{D,W,0}$ decreases as $\Lambda$ increases.

From the point of view of the preliminary design process, an 8% difference in the prediction of $C_{D,W,0}$ is relatively small, and either of the results discussed above would be reasonable for a starter. As the design progresses and the drag polar is refined (including input from wind tunnel tests), the above calculations are replaced with more precise data.

## 5.9 MINIMUM VELOCITY: STALL AND HIGH-LIFT DEVICES

Return to Fig. 5.15 for a moment, where a schematic of the thrust required and maximum thrust available curves is shown. Note that there are two intersections of these curves—a high-speed intersection that determines $V_{\max}$ and a low-speed intersection (shown as point 3 in Fig. 5.15). *Question:* Does the low-speed intersection determine the minimum velocity of the airplane for steady, level flight? *Answer:* It may or may not. Indeed, it is more likely that the airplane, as it slows down, would encounter stall before it could ever reach the minimum velocity defined by point 3 in Fig. 5.15. This is not a hard-and-fast rule, and both possibilities should be examined for a given airplane in order to ascertain its allowable minimum velocity in steady, level flight.