414

PART 3 • Airplane Design

$\eta_{pr} = 0.8$. Hence, the shaft brake power from the engine should be at least [from Eq. (8.38)]

$$
P = \frac{\dot{P}_A}{\eta_{pr}} = \frac{5.228 \times 10^4}{0.8} = 6.535 \times 10^4 \ \text{ft}\!\cdot\!\text{lb/s}
$$

Since 550 ft$\cdot$lb/s = 1 hp, we have

$$
P = \frac{6.535 \times 10^4}{550} = 118.8 \ \text{hp}
$$

As stated in Section 3.3.1, for a reciprocating engine $P$ is reasonably constant with $V_{\infty}$. Hence, to satisfy the takeoff constraint, the total power must be at least

$$
P \geq 118.8 \ \text{hp}
$$

[8.39]

Next, let us consider the constraint due to the specified rate of climb of 1,000 ft/min at sea level. Here, we need to make an estimate of the zero-lift drag coefficient $C_{D,0}$. We will use the same approach as illustrated in Example 2.4. From Fig. 2.54, for single-engine general aviation airplanes, the ratio of wetted area to the wing reference area is approximately $S_{wet}/S_{ref} = 4$. The skin-friction coefficient $C_{fe}$ is shown as a function of Reynolds number in Fig. 2.55, where some data points for various jet airplanes are also plotted. Our airplane design will probably be about the same size as that of some early jet fighters, but with about one-third the speed. Hence, based on mean length, a relevant Reynolds number for us is about $10^7$. For this case, Fig. 2.55 yields

$$
C_{fe} = 0.0043
$$

Hence, from Eq. (2.37)

$$
C_{D,0} = \frac{S_{wet}}{S} C_{fe} = (4)(0.0043)
$$

or

$$
C_{D,0} = 0.017
$$

[8.40]

We also need an estimate for the coefficient $K$ that appears in the drag polar, Eq. (2.47), repeated here:

$$
C_D = C_{D,0} + K C_L^2
$$

[2.47]

where, from Eqs. (2.43) to (2.46),

$$
K = k_1 + k_2 + k_3 = k_1 + k_2 + \frac{C_L^2}{\pi e AR}
$$

[8.41]

In Eq. (8.41), $e$ is the span efficiency factor to account for a nonelliptical lift distribution along the span of the wing, and $C_L^2/(\pi e AR)$ is the induced drag coefficient.