CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight 367

Hence,

$$
\text{Total takeoff distance} = s_g + s_a = 2{,}857 + 724 = 3{,}581\ \text{ft}
$$

It is interesting to compare the above calculation for $s_g$ with the more approximate relation given by Eq. (6.95)

$$
s_g \approx \frac{1.21(W/S)}{g\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}(T/W)}
$$

Evaluating $T/W$ at $V_\infty = 0.7V_{LO}$, as carried out earlier in this example, we have $T/W =$ $24{,}875/73{,}000 = 0.341$. Hence, Eq. (6.95) yields

$$
s_g \approx \frac{(1.21)(76.34)}{(32.2)(0.002377)(1.86)(0.341)} = 1{,}915\ \text{ft}
$$

If we add the 615 ft covered during the rotation phase, which is neglected in Eq. (6.95), we have

$$
s_g = 1{,}915 + 615 = 2{,}530\ \text{ft}
$$

This is to be compared with the value $s_g = 2{,}857$ ft obtained earlier. Hence, the greatly simplified expression given by Eq. (6.95) leads to a value for $s_g$ that is only 11% lower than that obtained by using our more precise analysis carried out above.

## 6.8 LANDING PERFORMANCE

The analysis of the landing performance of an airplane is somewhat analogous to that for takeoff, only in reverse. Consider an airplane on a landing approach. The landing distance, as sketched in Fig. 6.17, begins when the airplane clears an obstacle, which is taken to be 50 ft in height. At that instant the airplane is following a straight approach path with angle $\theta_a$, as noted in Fig. 6.17. The velocity of the airplane at the instant it clears the obstacle, denoted by $V_a$, is required to be equal to $1.3V_{\text{stall}}$ for commercial airplanes and $1.2V_{\text{stall}}$ for military airplanes. At a distance $h_f$ above the ground, the airplane begins the flare, which is the transition from the straight approach path to the horizontal ground roll. The flight path for the flare can be considered a circular arc with radius $R$, as shown in Fig. 6.17. The distance measured along the ground from the obstacle to the point of initiation of the flare is the approach distance $s_a$. Touchdown occurs when the wheels touch the ground. The distance over the ground covered during the flare is the flare distance $s_f$. The velocity at the touchdown $V_{TD}$ is $1.15V_{\text{stall}}$ for commercial airplanes and $1.1V_{\text{stall}}$ for military airplanes. After touchdown, the airplane is in free roll for a few seconds before the pilot applies the brakes and/or thrust reverser. The free-roll distance is short enough that the velocity over this length is assumed constant, equal to $V_{TD}$. The distance that the airplane rolls on the ground from touchdown to the point where the velocity goes to zero is called the ground roll $s_g$.