# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

conditions are shown. Similarly, a generic slender, delta-wing, supersonic transport is treated in Fig. 2.53b; both cruise at Mach 2.2 and takeoff conditions are shown. Note the following aspects, shown in Fig. 2.53:

1. For the subsonic transport in Fig. 2.53a, the elements labeled wing, body, empennage, engine installations, interference, leaks, undercarriage, and flaps are the contributors to the zero-lift parasite drag; that is, they stem from friction drag and pressure drag (due to flow separation). The element labeled lift-dependent drag (drag due to lift) stems from the increment of parasite drag associated with the change in angle of attack from the zero-lift valve, and the induced drag. Note that most of the drag at cruise is parasite drag, whereas most of the drag at takeoff is lift-dependent drag, which in this case is mostly induced drag associated with the high lift coefficient at takeoff.

2. For the supersonic transport in Fig. 2.53b, more than two-thirds of the cruise drag is wave drag—a combination of zero-lift wave drag and the lift-dependent drag (which is mainly wave drag due to lift). This dominance of wave drag is the major aerodynamic characteristic of supersonic airplanes. At takeoff, the drag of the supersonic transport is much like that of the subsonic transport, except that the supersonic transport experiences more lift-dependent drag. This is because the low-aspect-ratio delta wing increases the induced drag, and the higher angle of attack required for the delta wing at takeoff (because of the lower lift slope) increases the increment in parasite drag due to lift.

Elaborating on the breakdown of subsonic cruise drag shown in Fig. 2.53a, we note that, of the total parasite drag at cruise, about two-thirds is usually due to skin friction, and the rest is form drag and interference drag. Since friction drag is a function of the total wetted surface area of the airplane (as noted in Section 2.4), an estimate of the parasite drag of the whole airplane should involve the wetted surface area. The wetted surface area $S_{wet}$ can be anywhere between 2 and 8 times the reference planform area of the wing $S$. At the conceptual design stage of an airplane, the wetted surface area can be estimated based on historical data from previous airplanes. For example, Fig. 2.54 gives the ratio $S_{wet}/S$ for a number of different types of aircraft, ranging from a flying wing (the B-2) to a large jumbo jet (the Boeing 747). Although not very precise, Fig. 2.54 can be used in the conceptual design stage to estimate $S_{wet}$ for the given $S$ and aircraft type. In turn, the zero-lift parasite drag $D_0$ can be expressed in terms of an equivalent skin friction coefficient $C_{fe}$ and $S_{wet}$ as follows:

$$
D_0 = q_\infty S_{wet} C_{fe}
$$

[2.35]

In Eq. (2.35), $C_{fe}$ is a function of Reynolds number based on mean chord length, as given in Fig. 2.55, after Jobe (Ref. 27). The equivalent skin-friction coefficient includes form drag and interference drag as well as friction drag. The more conventional zero-lift drag coefficient $C_{D,0}$ is defined in terms of the planform area $S$

$$
C_{D,0} = \frac{D_0}{q_\infty S}
$$

[2.36]