292

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

*Note:* The minimum time to climb to 30,000 ft of 3.51 min calculated here is small because $(R/C)_{\max}$ has been used at each altitude, and we already noted in the discussion following Example 5.13 that the actual airplane would have values of rate of climb lower than $(R/C)_{\max}$.

## 5.12.2 Analytical Approach

The governing relation for time to climb is given by Eq. (5.136), with the minimum time to climb given by Eq. (5.138). There is no exact analytical formula for $t$ that can be obtained from these equations because of the nonlinear variation of rate of climb with altitude. However, examination of Fig. 5.45a shows that, in an *approximate fashion*, the variation of $(R/C)_{\max}$ is nearly linear with altitude. If we make the approximation, we can write

$$
(R/C)_{\max} = a + bh
$$

[5.140]

where $h$ is altitude, $a$ is the $h = 0$ intercept on the abscissa in Fig. 5.45a, and $b$ is the slope of the approximate linear curve. Substituting Eq. (5.140) into Eq. (5.138), we have

$$
t_{\min}=\int_0^{h_2}\frac{dh}{a+bh}=\frac{1}{b}[\ln(a+bh_2)-\ln a]
$$

[5.141]

**Example 5.18** Using the analytical approach described above, calculate the minimum time to climb to 30,000 ft for the Gulfstream IV, and compare your answer to the graphical result from Example 5.17.

**Solution**  
To find the values of $a$ and $b$ in Eq. (5.140), refer to Fig. 5.45a; or better yet, see the table in Example 5.16, where

$$
a = 179.9\ \text{ft/s}
$$

Let us approximate the slope $b$ by using the values of $(R/C)_{\max}$ at 20,000 and 50,000 ft (a rather arbitrary choice), which are 133.8 and 58.2 ft/s, respectively.

$$
b=\frac{58.2-133.8}{50{,}000-20{,}000}=-2.52\times10^{-3}\ \text{s}^{-1}
$$

Hence, the form of Eq. (5.140) used for this example is

$$
(R/C)_{\max}=179.9-2.52\times10^{-3}h
$$

[Note that, just as a check, the above relation evaluated at $h = 10{,}000$ ft gives $(R/C)_{\max} = 154.7$ ft/s. The exact value from the table in Example 5.16 is $(R/C)_{\max} = 156.6$ ft/s. Our approximate linear curve is accurate to within 1.2% at this altitude.] From Eq. (5.141), we have