# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

233

From Eq. (5.50),

$$
V_{\max}=\left[\frac{0.2106(76.84)+76.84\sqrt{(0.2106)^2-4(0.015)(0.08)}}{(8.9068\times10^{-4})(0.015)}\right]^{1/2}=1{,}534.6\ \text{ft/s}
$$

Again we note that the drag polar assumed for this example does not include the large drag rise near Mach 1, and hence the $V_{\max}$ calculated above is unrealistically large. However, this example is intentionally chosen to emphasize two points, discussed below.

First, we have already noted (via a homework problem) that a turbojet-powered aircraft with $T_A \propto \rho/\rho_0$ will experience a decrease in $V_{\max}$ as altitude increases. This is a mathematical result obtained from Eq. (5.50). However, it is easily explained on a physical basis. The thrust decreases proportionally to the decrease in air density as the altitude increases. In contrast, the drag decreases slightly less than proportionally to the air density. Why? Even though $D=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2SC_D$, which would seem to indicate a decrease in drag proportional to the density decrease, keep in mind that (for a given velocity) the lift coefficient must increase with altitude in order for the lift to sustain the weight. Hence, the drag due to lift increases. Examining the drag equation

$$
D=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2SC_D=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2S(C_{D,0}+KC_L^2)
$$

we see that as $\rho_\infty$ decreases and $C_L$ increases as a result, $D$ will decrease at a rate which is less than proportional to the air density. Hence, because the thrust drops off in direct proportion to density, we find that at altitude the thrust has decreased more than the drag, and hence $V_{\max}$ is smaller at altitude. The opposite is true for the turbofan-powered airplane in Example 5.6. Here, the thrust decreases more slowly than the drag decreases with altitude, and hence $V_{\max}$ grows larger as the altitude increases. Keep in mind that the discussion in this paragraph ignores the effect of drag divergence near Mach 1, hence it applies realistically to only those turbojet and turbofan aircraft flying below drag divergence.

This leads to the second point. Clearly the Gulfstream IV in Example 5.6 has plenty of thrust. The results of both parts (a) and (b) of the example show that if drag divergence did not occur, the airplane could fly at moderate supersonic speeds. Of course, the real Gulfstream IV does not go supersonic because it encounters drag divergence, and this large drag rise limits the Gulfstream IV to a maximum operating Mach number of 0.88 (see Ref. 36). This raises the question: Why does the Gulfstream IV have more thrust than it needs to achieve Mach 0.88? The answer is that considerations *other* than maximum flight velocity can dictate the design choice for maximum thrust for an airplane. For many cases, a large maximum thrust is necessary to achieve a reasonable takeoff distance along the ground. Also, maximum rate of climb and maximum turn rate are determined in part by maximum thrust. Rate of climb will be discussed in Section 5.9, and matters associated with takeoff and turn rate are considered in Chapter 6.

Historically, in the eras of the strut-and-wire biplanes and the mature propeller-driven airplane (see Chapter 1), maximum velocity was the primary consideration for sizing the engine—the more powerful the engine, the faster the airplane. However, in the era of jet-propelled airplanes, with engines that produce more than enough thrust for airplanes to bump up against the large drag divergence, the design considerations changed. For jet airplanes intended to be limited to subsonic flight, the sizing of the engine was influenced by other considerations, as mentioned above. On the other hand, for aircraft designed to fly at supersonic speeds and which have to penetrate the large transonic drag rise, engine size is still primarily driven by consideration of $V_{\max}$.