# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

assumes a stationary atmosphere, that is, no wind. Hence, in Eq. (5.146), $V_\infty$ represents the ground speed as well as the airspeed. However, with a wind, we have to remember that the fundamental relationship is Eq. (5.177), not Eq. (5.146). Following a derivation analogous to that for Eq. (5.152), Eq. (5.177) leads to the expression for range for a jet-propelled airplane

$$
R=\frac{V_g}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\ln\frac{W_0}{W_1}
$$

[5.178]

The power available for the airplane is, as before, the product of the thrust and the true airspeed of the airplane $T V_\infty$, no matter what the wind velocity may be. Hence, Eq. (3.43) still holds, namely, $c_t=cV_\infty/\eta_{pr}$. In turn, Eq. (5.178) can be written as

$$
R=\frac{\eta_{pr}}{c}\frac{V_g}{V_\infty}\frac{L}{D}\ln\frac{W_0}{W_1}
$$

[5.179]

which is in a form convenient for calculating the range for a propeller-driven airplane.

The values of $V_\infty$ that correspond to maximum range for a jet airplane and a propeller-driven airplane including the effect of wind can be found by differentiating Eqs. (5.178) and (5.179), respectively, with respect to $V_\infty$ and setting the derivatives equal to zero. The details can be found in Refs. 41 and 49. Because of the appearance of $V_g$ in Eqs. (5.178) and (5.179), the values of $V_\infty$ that result in maximum range with wind effects are different from those we obtained earlier for the case of no wind. Indeed for both the jet airplane and the propeller-driven airplane, the best-range value of $V_\infty$ with a headwind is higher than that for no wind, and the best-range value of $V_\infty$ with a tailwind is lower than that for no wind. See Refs. 41 and 49 for analytical expressions for these best-range airspeeds with wind.

A graphical approach provides a more direct way of obtaining the best-range airspeeds with wind. First, consider a propeller-driven airplane. Range is determined by the pounds of fuel consumed *per mile covered over the ground*. Hence, analogous to Eq. (5.174), we write

$$
\frac{\text{lb of fuel consumed}}{\text{mi}}=\frac{(\mathrm{SFC})HP_R}{\eta_{pr}V_g}
$$

[5.180]

Clearly, from Eq. (5.180) minimum number of pounds of fuel consumed per mile, which corresponds to maximum range, is obtained with *minimum* $HP_R/V_g$. Consider the power required curve sketched in Fig. 5.49. This is a plot of $HP_R$ versus airspeed $V_\infty$; it is our familiar power required curve as discussed throughout this chapter. It depends on the aerodynamics of the airplane, which depends on $V_\infty$. Also, as discussed in Section 5.15.2, a line drawn from the origin tangent to the $HP_R$ curve at point 1 defines the airspeed for maximum range without wind. This is shown by point 1 in Fig. 5.49. Now assume that a headwind with velocity $V_{HW}$ exists. Hence, $V_g=V_\infty-V_{HW}$. If we want to use $V_g$ as the abscissa rather than $V_\infty$ in Fig. 5.49, we have to shift the origin to the right, to the tick mark labeled $V_{HW}$, and place the origin of the new abscissa at that point, as indicated by the new abscissa labeled $V_g$ in Fig. 5.49. The power required curve stays where it is—it does not move because it depends on the airspeed $V_\infty$. However, the condition for best range with wind is