360 PART 2 • Airplane Performance

This is the expression for $dV_\infty/dt$ that is inserted into Eq. (6.81). To simplify the appearance of the following equations, we define the symbols $K_T$ and $K_A$ as

$$
K_T=\frac{T}{W}-\mu_r
$$

[6.85]

$$
K_A=-\frac{\rho_\infty}{2(W/S)}\left[C_{D,0}+\Delta C_{D,0}+\left(k_1+\frac{G}{\pi eAR}\right)C_L^2-\mu_r C_L\right]
$$

[6.86]

Then Eq. (6.84) can be written as

$$
\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}=g\left(K_T+K_A V_\infty^2\right)
$$

[6.87]

Substituting Eq. (6.87) into Eq. (6.81), we have

$$
ds=\frac{d(V_\infty^2)}{2g\left(K_T+K_A V_\infty^2\right)}
$$

[6.88]

Integrating Eq. (6.88) between $s=0$ where $V_\infty=0$ and $s=s_g$ where $V_\infty=V_{LO}$, we have

$$
s_g=\int_0^{V_{LO}} \frac{d(V_\infty^2)}{2g\left(K_T+K_A V_\infty^2\right)}
$$

[6.89]

Up to this point, no simplifications have been made. The values of $K_T$ and $K_A$ vary with $V_\infty$ during the ground roll; and if this variation is properly taken into account, a numerical evaluation of the integral in Eq. (6.89) will yield an accurate value of $s_g$.

The integral in Eq. (6.89) can be evaluated analytically by assuming that $K_T$ and $K_A$ are constant during the ground roll. Examining the definitions of $K_T$ and $K_A$ given by Eqs. (6.85) and (6.86), we see that this implies that

1. $T/W$ is constant. This is a good approximation for a turbojet, but it is not good for a reciprocating engine/propeller aircraft or for a high-bypass-ratio turbofan. In the latter two cases where $T$ varies with velocity, a frequently made assumption is to consider $T$ in Eq. (6.85) to be a constant equal to its value at $V_\infty=0.7V_{LO}$.

2. $C_L$ is constant. This is a reasonable assumption during the ground roll to the point of rotation, because the angle of attack is fixed by the landing gear features and the design incidence angle of the wing chord with respect to the fuselage. During rotation $C_L$ increases to a value that is equal to or less than $(C_L)_{\max}$, depending on the degree of tail clearance with the ground. However, the distance covered over the ground during the rotation phase is relatively small compared to the total ground roll. Raymer (Ref. 25) suggests that the time between the initiation of rotation and actual liftoff is typically 3 s for large aircraft and about 1 s for small aircraft, and that the velocity of the airplane changes very little during this phase. Hence the ground distance covered during the rotation period can be approximated by $3V_{LO}$ for large airplanes and $V_{LO}$ for small airplanes.