CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight 201

Please be aware that in some cases this will lead to results that are much too optimistic. The actual Gulfstream IV is already a high-performance airplane (a “hot” airplane); in some of the worked examples in this chapter, it will appear to be even “hotter.” However, the purpose of the worked examples is to illustrate the basic concepts, and so nothing is lost, and indeed much is gained, by the simplicity in assuming a constant thrust with velocity. Some of the problems at the end of this chapter deal with the more realistic case of a variation of turbofan thrust with velocity. The results of these problems, compared with the corresponding worked examples in the text, give some idea of the differences obtained.

## 5.2 EQUATIONS OF MOTION FOR STEADY, LEVEL FLIGHT

Return to Fig. 4.1, which shows an airplane with a horizontal flight path. This airplane is in *level flight*; that is, the climb angle $\theta$ and roll angle $\phi$ are zero. Moreover, by definition, *steady flight* is flight with no acceleration. Hence, the governing equations of motion for steady, level flight are obtained from Eqs. (4.5) and (4.6) by setting $\theta$, $\phi$, $dV_{\infty}/dt$, and $V_{\infty}^{2}/r_1$ equal to zero. (The normal acceleration $V_{\infty}/r_1$ is zero by definition of steady flight, i.e., no acceleration; this is also consistent with the flight path being a straight line, where the radius of curvature $r_1$ is infinitely large.) The resulting equations are, from Eq. (4.5),

$$
0 = T \cos \epsilon - D
$$

[5.1]

and from Eq. (4.6),

$$
0 = L + T \sin \epsilon - W
$$

[5.2]

Although the engine thrust line is inclined at angle $\epsilon$ to the free-stream direction, this angle is usually small for conventional airplanes and can be neglected. Hence, for this chapter we assume that the thrust is aligned with the flight direction, that is, $\epsilon = 0$. For this case, Eqs. (5.1) and (5.2) reduce to, respectively,

$$
T = D
$$

[5.3]

$$
L = W
$$

[5.4]

Equations (5.3) and (5.4) can be obtained simply by inspection of Fig. 5.2, which illustrates an airplane in steady, level flight. In the simple force balance shown in Fig. 5.2, lift equals weight [Eq. (5.4)] and thrust equals drag [Eq. (5.3)]. Although we could have written these equations directly by inspection of Fig. 5.2 rather than derive them as special cases of the more general equations of motion, it is instructional to show that Eqs. (5.3) and (5.4) are indeed special cases of the general equations of motion—indeed, Eqs. (5.3) and (5.4) *are* the equations of motion for an airplane in steady, level flight.