# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

137

between the wing chord and the axis of symmetry of the fuselage. Such an airplane would have zero lift at 0° angle of attack, and the drag would be a minimum at the same 0° angle of attack. In contrast, the drag polar sketched in Fig. 2.59, where the zero-lift drag coefficient is not the same as the minimum drag coefficient, applies to an airplane with some effective camber; the zero-lift drag coefficient $C_{D,0}$ is obtained at some angle of attack different from zero. This is the case for most airplanes, such as that shown in Fig. 2.60.

In the remainder of this book, we assume that the difference between $C_{D,0}$ and $C_{D,\min}$ is small, and we will deal with the type of drag polar shown in Fig. 2.56. This has the advantage of leading to relatively straightforward analytical formulas for the various airplane performance characteristics discussed in Chapters 5 and 6—analytical formulas which are very useful to the designer in the preliminary design process. Moreover, many of the airplane performance characteristics are relatively insensitive to whether the form of the drag polar is given by Fig. 2.56 or 2.59, within reason. However, when the stage in the design process is reached where design *optimization* is carried out, it is important to deal with a more accurate drag polar as sketched in Fig. 2.59. Otherwise, the optimization process may converge to a misleading configuration. The reader is cautioned about this effect on the design. However, all the educational goals of the subsequent chapters are more readily achieved by assuming a drag polar of the form shown in Fig. 2.56, and hence we continue with this assumption.

## 2.10 HISTORICAL NOTE: THE ORIGIN OF THE DRAG POLAR—LILIENTHAL AND EIFFEL

The first drag polar in the history of aerodynamics was constructed by Otto Lilienthal in Germany toward the end of the nineteenth century. Lilienthal played a pivotal role in the development of aeronautics, as discussed in Chapter 1. Among his many contributions was a large bulk of aerodynamic lift and drag measurements on flat plates and thin, cambered airfoils, which he published in 1889 and in his classic book entitled *Birdflight as the Basis of Aviation* (Ref. 31). Later, these results were tabulated by Lilienthal; this became the famous *Lilienthal table* used by the Wright brothers in their early flying machine work. However, of interest in the present section is that in Ref. 31 Lilienthal also plotted his data in the form of drag polars.

Before we pursue this matter further, let us expand on our earlier discussion of Lilienthal in Chapter 1, and take a closer look at the man himself.

Otto Lilienthal was born in Anklam, Germany, on May 23, 1848, to middle-class parents. His mother was an educated woman, interested in artistic and cultural matters, and was a trained singer. His father was a cloth merchant who died when Otto was only 13 years old. Lilienthal was educated in Potsdam and Berlin; in 1870, he graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering from the Berlin Trade Academy (now the respected Technical University of Berlin). A photograph of Lilienthal is shown in Fig. 2.63. After serving in the Franco–Prussian War, Lilienthal married and went into business for himself. He obtained a patent for a compact, efficient, low-cost boiler, and in 1881 he opened a small factory in Berlin to manufacture his boilers. This boiler factory became his lifelong source of monetary income. However, throughout his adulthood, Lilienthal lived a simultaneous “second life,” namely, that of an aerodynamic researcher and aeronautical enthusiast. As early as 1866, with the help of his brother Gustav, Lilienthal began a series of protracted