# CHAPTER 9 • Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

44.5 ft, and the planform area is 840 ft$^2$, giving an aspect ratio of 2.36. The choice of a low aspect ratio is driven by the supersonic performance (the supersonic wave drag is reduced by reducing the aspect ratio). The wings have full-span leading-edge flaps. The vertical tails are canted outward by 28° and incorporate conventional rudders. The vertical tails are all-moving, slab “taileron” surfaces.

More than 19,000 h of wind tunnel time was invested in the design of the YF-22. These tests were instrumental in obtaining preflight predictions of the performance of the YF-22. Such preflight predictions were requested by the Air Force in early 1990 so that they could be compared with actual test flight data to be obtained later that year. Although the detailed comparisons are classified, the flight tests carried out in late 1990 provided the following results (Ref. 71):

1. Supersonic cruise was as predicted. Maximum level speed at 30,000 ft was $M_\infty = 1.58$; with afterburning, it was $M_\infty = 1.7$.

2. Up to $M_\infty = 0.9$, the subsonic drag was as predicted.

3. Supersonic drag for low angle of attack was as predicted. (Insufficient flight data were obtained for comparison at high angles of attack at supersonic speeds.)

4. The drag rise at transonic speeds was lower than predicted.

5. Specific excess power was as predicted.

6. Range at all test conditions was within 3% of predictions (which means that $L/D$ values were well predicted).

7. Maximum speed was as predicted and was achieved in flight on December 28, 1990.

8. Maximum roll rates were smaller than predicted, and time to specific bank angles at subsonic and supersonic speeds was larger than predicted, but was judged to be satisfactory.

9. Flying qualities at high angles of attack (above 20°) were judged to be excellent with the use of thrust vectoring.

10. The $(C_L)_{\max}$ was higher than predicted.

The detailed design and manufacturing processes that led to the first production F-22 were lengthy, taking 6 years. The high technology embodied in the design is partly responsible. Even the materials were of an advanced mix; the F-22 structure is 35% composite material, 33% titanium, 11% aluminum, 5% steel, and the other 16% miscellaneous materials. Finally, the rollout of the first production F-22 occurred in April 1997. The first flight of this production airplane was on September 7, 1997, lasting 58 min at altitudes of 15,000 to 20,000 ft, speeds up to 300 mi/h, and angles of attack during maneuvers of up to 14°.

The F-22 is considered to be the best fighter airplane anywhere in the world for the beginning of the twenty-first century. At the time of writing, at least 480 airplanes are anticipated to be manufactured.