CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane 461

The Wrights considered a wind of 25 mi/h to be an average for the region around Kill Devil Hills. Hence, from Eq. (8.86), we obtain

$$
\frac{W}{S} = 0.0033(25)^2(0.433) = 0.89\ \text{lb/ft}^2
$$

When it was finally constructed, the 1902 glider weighed about 260 lb including the pilot and had a total wing area of 305 ft$^2$. The resulting wing loading was 0.85 lb/ft$^2$, very close to (but slightly more conservative than) the calculated design value of 0.89 lb/ft$^2$. Finally, these conditions for the 1902 glider were translated to the design characteristics for the 1903 *Wright Flyer*. When the Wrights began to design their powered machine, they allotted no more than 180 lb for the weight of the engine, which they felt must also produce a minimum of 8 to 9 brake horsepower (bhp). (These are specifications stated by the Wrights in their letters that were mailed to a number of engine manufacturers in December 1902. Nobody could meet these specifications, so Orville along with Charlie Taylor, a mechanic at their bicycle shop, took on the design and fabrication of the engine themselves.) With the increased weight due to the engine and propellers, the new flying machine had to be larger than their 1902 glider, which increased the weight even more. They converged on a total estimated design gross weight of 625 lb. With this, they had executed pivot point 2 in Fig. 7.3. To obtain the wing loading (hence wing area), Eq. (8.86) was used. The actual design velocity used by the Wrights for the machine cannot be found in their correspondence (at least not by this author). However, it is most likely that they would have designed for 30 mi/h, which would allow them to make demonstrable forward progress over the ground in the face of the assumed average 25 mi/h headwinds at Kill Devil Hills. From Eq. (8.86) with $V = 30$ mi/h, and using the same lift coefficient of 0.433 which led to their successful 1902 glider design, the resulting wing loading is

$$
\frac{W}{S} = (0.0033)(30)^2(0.433) = 1.29\ \text{lb/ft}^2
$$

The Wrights built the *Wright Flyer* with a wing area of 510 ft$^2$, which gives a design wing loading of 1.23 lb/ft$^2$, very close to the above result. With this calculation, the Wrights were carrying out an important aspect of pivot point 3 in Fig. 7.3.

Another design calculation was for the thrust required, which is equal to the drag. The Wrights made a rather detailed drag breakdown for their machine, calculating what at that time was called “head resistance.” The details are too lengthy to discuss here; they can be pieced together from the voluminous correspondence in Ref. 58. The net result was a calculation of 90 lb for thrust required. This meant that the engine horsepower had to translate into 90 lb of thrust from the propellers. In essence, the design thrust-to-weight ratio was $T/W = 0.144$. The Wrights’ propeller design was a masterstroke of engineering brilliance, as described in Section 1.2.2 and discussed in Ref. 1. In the final result, the Wrights were elated when they measured 136 lb of thrust from their engine/propeller combination. And a good thing it was, because the actual fabricated weight of the *Wright Flyer* was slightly over 700 lb, considerably greater than the design figure of 625 lb. (This progressive increase in weight during the course of the design is a trend that has plagued most airplanes since the *Wright*