300

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

$L = W$ throughout the flight and

$$
L = W = \frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty} V_{\infty}^{2} S C_L
$$

[5.157]

then the right-hand side of Eq. (5.157) must decrease during the flight. Because of the assumption that $L/D$ or $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ is constant, the angle of attack remains constant, and hence $C_L$ is constant. Since $V_{\infty}$ is also assumed constant, the only quantity on the right-hand side of Eq. (5.157) that can change is $\rho_{\infty}$. Therefore, the contingency in our assumptions is that as the flight progresses and fuel is consumed, the altitude must be continuously increased in just the right manner so that $C_L$ remains constant as $W$ decreases. To take the conditions of Example 5.19 as a case in point, at the start of the flight, $C_L$ is given by

$$
C_L = \frac{W}{\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty} V_{\infty}^{2} S}
= \frac{73,000}{\frac{1}{2}(8.9068 \times 10^{-4})(830.8)^2(950)}
= 0.25
$$

At the end of the flight, when $W = 43{,}500$ lb, the value of $\rho_{\infty}$ necessary to keep $C_L = 0.25$ is

$$
\rho_{\infty} = \frac{2W}{V_{\infty}^{2} S C_L}
= \frac{2(43{,}500)}{(830.8)^2(950)(0.25)}
= 5.307 \times 10^{-4}\ \text{slug/ft}^3
$$

This density corresponds to a standard altitude of about 42,000 ft. Hence, for the conditions of Example 5.19, the airplane starts out at an altitude of 30,000 ft, but must continually climb and will end up at an altitude of 42,000 ft in order to keep $V_{\infty}$ and $C_L$ (hence $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$) constant. Of course, this changing of altitude compromises the use of a fixed value of $\rho_{\infty}$ in the range equation for a jet airplane, Eq. (5.156). The range equation for a propeller-driven airplane, Eq. (5.153), does not contain $\rho_{\infty}$ and hence is not compromised in the same manner.

Air traffic control constraints do not usually allow an airplane to constantly increase its altitude during the flight, and hence at constant velocity the airplane is generally flying off its maximum value of $L/D$ or $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$, as the case may be. However, on long flights, such as across the Atlantic Ocean, you may note that from time to time the pilot will put the airplane into a short climb to higher altitude. This “stairstepping” flight profile helps to increase the range.

Equations (5.152), (5.153), and (5.156) are useful for preliminary performance estimates for range. However, it is important to keep the above comments in mind when you interpret the results. Also, these equations do not account for takeoff, ascent to altitude, descent, and landing.

There are other scenarios for the calculation of range, such as constant-altitude constant-velocity flight (where the value of $C_L$ changes, hence $L/D$ and $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ change), and constant-altitude constant-$C_L$ flight (where the value of $V_{\infty}$ changes). These scenarios lead to predictions of maximum range that are less than the constant-velocity constant-$C_L$ scenario (the cruise-climb scenario) we have treated here. For a more in-depth discussion of various range scenarios, see the books of Hale (Ref. 49) and Mair and Birdsall (Ref. 41).