# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

calculation, for the present discussion we treat Fig. 5.23 as a generic drag-divergence curve.)

2. The drag coefficient at $M_\infty = 1.05$, denoted by point B in Fig. 5.23, is assumed to be equal to that at $M_\infty = 1.2$.

3. The drag rise at $M_\infty = 1.0$ is assumed to be about one-half that at $M_\infty = 1.05$. This is denoted by point C on Fig. 5.23, which is located vertically halfway between points B and E. Point E is the drag coefficient at the critical Mach number; the drag coefficient at point E is the conventional subsonic value of $C_{D,0}$ before the drag rise sets in.

4. Point D denotes the zero-lift drag coefficient at the drag-divergence Mach number $M_{DD}$. It is assumed that the difference in drag coefficients between points D and E is about 0.002, as shown in Fig. 5.23.

---

**Using Raymer's procedure to obtain the drag-divergence curve as outlined above, calculate the maximum velocity of the Gulfstream IV at 30,000 ft. From Ref. 36, the maximum diameter of the fuselage is 7.83 ft, and the length is 78 ft. From the three-view in Fig. 5.1, the length of the constant-area section of the fuselage is measured as 43 ft.**  
**Example 5.11**

## Solution

From Eq. (5.63) evaluated at $M_\infty = 1.2$,

$$
C_{D,W,0} = E_{WD}[C_{D,W,0}]_{\text{Sears-Haack}}
\qquad [5.65]
$$

In Eq. (5.64),

$$
A_{\max} = \frac{\pi d^2}{4} = \frac{\pi(7.83)^2}{4} = 48.15\ \text{ft}^2
$$

and

$$
l = 78 - 43 = 35\ \text{ft}
$$

Note that the Sears-Haack drag formula applies to bodies of revolution, and hence only the maximum fuselage cross-sectional area is used. Because the frontal areas of the wings and nacelles are not taken into account in this formula, our subsequent calculations will underpredict the drag. With this caveat, Eq. (5.64) yields

$$
[C_{D,W,0}]_{\text{Sears-Haack}} = \frac{9\pi}{2S}\left[\frac{A_{\max}}{l}\right]^2
= \frac{9\pi}{2(950)}\left[\frac{48.15}{35}\right]^2 = 0.028
$$

Based on the suggestion by Raymer (Ref. 25) that $E_{WD}$ range from 1.4 to 2.0 for supersonic fighter, bomber, and transport designs, and can be between 2 and 3 for poor supersonic design, we choose (somewhat arbitrarily) a value of $E_{WD} = 2$ for the Gulfstream IV in this example.

Then from Eq. (5.65) we have

$$
C_{D,W,0} = E_{WD}(C_{D,W,0})_{\text{Sears-Haack}} = 2(0.028) = 0.056
$$

From Eq. (2.45), the total zero-lift drag coefficient, including the effect of wave drag, is

$$
C_{D,0} = C_{D,e,0} + C_{D,W,0}
$$