162

PART I • Preliminary Considerations

and over a shorter horizontal distance—a characteristic particularly important for the high-performance airplanes that characterize the era of the mature propeller-driven airplane.

Finally, we note another advantage of being able to vary the propeller pitch, namely, feathering of the propeller. A propeller is feathered when its pitch is adjusted so that the drag is minimized, and there is little or no tendency for autorotation when the engine is turned off but the airplane is still moving. The propeller is feathered when an engine failure occurs in flight, and sometimes when a multiengine airplane is taxiing on the ground with one or more engines turned off.

## 3.4 THE TURBOJET ENGINE

The basic components of a turbojet engine are illustrated schematically in Fig. 3.10a, and the generic variations (averaged over a local cross section) of static pressure $p$, static temperature $T$, and flow velocity $V$ with axial distance through the engine are shown in Fig. 3.10b, c, and d, respectively. Flow enters the inlet diffuser with essentially the free-stream velocity $V_\infty$. (In reality, the velocity entering the inlet is usually slightly slower or faster than $V_\infty$, depending on the engine operating conditions; nature takes care of the adjustment to an inlet velocity different from $V_\infty$ in that portion of the stream tube of air which enters the engine, but upstream of the entrance to the inlet.) In the diffuser (1-2), the air is slowed, with a consequent increase in $p$ and $T$. It then enters the compressor (2-3), where work is done on the air by the rotating compressor blades, hence greatly increasing both $p$ and $T$. After discharge from the compressor, the air enters the burner (or combustor), where it is mixed with fuel and burned at essentially constant pressure (3-4). The burned fuel-air mixture then expands through a turbine (4-5) which extracts work from the gas; the turbine is connected to the compressor by a shaft, and the work extracted from the turbine is transmitted via the shaft to operate the compressor. Finally, the gas expands through a nozzle (5-6) and is exhausted into the air with the jet velocity $V_j$.

The thrust generated by the engine is due to the net resultant of the pressure and shear stress distributions acting on the exposed surface areas, internal and external, at each point at which the gas contacts any part of the device, as described in Section 3.2. Figure 3.10e illustrates how each component of the turbojet contributes to the thrust; this figure is essentially a picture of the “thrust buildup” for the engine. The internal duct of the diffuser and compressor has a component of surface area that faces in the thrust direction (toward the left in Fig. 3.10). The high pressure in the diffuser and especially in the compressor, acting on this forward-facing area, creates a large force in the thrust direction. Note in Fig. 3.10e that the accumulated thrust $T$ grows with distance along the diffuser (1-2) and the compressor (2-3). This high pressure also acts on a component of forward-facing area in the burner, so that the accumulated value of $T$ continues to increase with distance through the burner (3-4), as shown in Fig. 3.10e. However, in the turbine and nozzle, the net surface area has a component that faces in the rearward direction, and the pressure acting on this rearward-facing area creates a force in the negative thrust direction (to the right in Fig. 3.10). Thus, the accumulated thrust $F$ decreases through the turbine (4-5) and nozzle (5-6), as