# chapter 7

# The Philosophy of Airplane Design

“The . . . line of argument draws, or attempts to draw, a clear line between pure science and technology (which is tending to become a pejorative word). This is a line that once I tried to draw myself: but, though I can still see the reasons, I shouldn’t now. The more I have seen of technologists at work, the more untenable the distinction has come to look. If you actually see someone design an aircraft, you can find him going through the same experience—aesthetic, intellectual, moral—as though he was setting up an experiment in particle physics.”

C. P. Snow, *The Two Cultures:  
and a Second Look,* 1963,  
Cambridge University Press

“A beautiful aircraft is the expression of the genius of a great engineer who is also a great artist.”

Neville Shute, British aeronautical  
engineer and novelist. From  
*No Highway,* 1947.

## 7.1 INTRODUCTION

Airplane design is both an art and a science. In that respect it is difficult to learn by reading a book; rather, it must be experienced and practiced. However, we can offer the following definition and then attempt in this book to explain it. Airplane design is the intellectual engineering process of creating on paper (or on a computer screen) a flying machine to (1) meet certain specifications and requirements established by potential users (or as perceived by the manufacturer) and/or (2) pioneer innovative, new ideas and technology. An example of the former is the design of most commercial

381