CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

319

(b) At an altitude of 30,000 ft, plot the thrust available curve, using Eq. (2) above, and the thrust required curve, both on the same graph. From this obtain $V_{\max}$ at 30,000 ft.  
(c) Compare the results obtained from (a) and (b) with the analytical results from Example 5.6.

For the Gulfstream IV with the thrust available variations given by Eqs. (1) and (2) in Problem 5.18, analytically (directly) calculate $V_{\max}$ at sea level and at 30,000 ft. Compare with the graphical results obtained in Problem 5.18. Comment on the increased level of difficulty of this calculation compared to that performed in Example 5.6 where the thrust was assumed constant with velocity. **5.19**

For the Gulfstream IV with the thrust available variations given in Problem 5.18, do the following: **5.20**  
(a) Plot the power available and power required curves at sea level. From this graphical construction, obtain the maximum rate of climb at sea level and the velocity at which it is obtained. Compare with the results obtained in Example 5.13.  
(b) Plot the power available and power required curves at 30,000 ft. From this graphical construction, obtain the maximum rate of climb at 30,000 ft and the velocity at which it is obtained.

When the thrust available variation is given by $T_A/(T_A)_{V=0} = AM_\infty^{-n}$, develop an analytical solution for the calculation of maximum rate of climb. Compare this with the simpler analytical approach discussed in Section 5.10.2 for the case of constant thrust available. **5.21**

Use the development in Problem 5.21 to calculate analytically the maximum rate of climb at sea level and at 30,000 ft for the Gulfstream IV. Compare these analytical results with the graphical results from Problem 5.20. **5.22**

Use the two data points for maximum rate of climb obtained in Problem 5.20 (or Problem 5.22) to make an approximate estimate of the absolute ceiling for the Gulfstream IV. Compare this result with that obtained in Example 5.16. **5.23**