208

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

It is undesirable to fly an airplane in the velocity range to the left of the vertical dashed line in Fig. 5.4. This is a region of *velocity instability*, as identified in Fig. 5.4. The nature of this velocity instability is as follows. Consider an airplane in steady, level flight at a velocity less than the velocity for minimum $T_R$, that is, to the left of the vertical dashed line in Fig. 5.4. This condition is sketched in Fig. 5.6a, where the airplane velocity is denoted by $V_1$. For steady flight, the engine throttle is adjusted such that the thrust from the engine exactly equals $T_R$. Now assume the airplane is perturbed in some fashion, say, by a horizontal gust, which momentarily decreases $V_\infty$ for the airplane, say, to velocity $V_2$. This decrease in velocity $\Delta V = V_2 - V_1$ causes an increase in $T_R$ (an increase in drag), denoted by $\Delta T_R = T_{R_2} - T_{R_1}$. But the engine throttle has not been touched, and momentarily the drag of the airplane is higher than the thrust from the engine. This *further slows down* the airplane and takes it even farther away from its original point, point 1 in Fig. 5.6a. *This is an unstable condition.* Similarly, if the perturbation momentarily increases $V_\infty$ to $V_3$, where the increase in velocity is $\Delta V = V_3 - V_1$, then $T_R$ (hence, drag) decreases, $\Delta T_R = T_{R_3} - T_{R_1}$. Again, the engine throttle has not been touched, and momentarily the thrust from the engine is higher than the drag of the airplane. This accelerates the airplane to an even higher velocity, taking it even farther away from its original point, point 1. Again, this is an *unstable condition*. This is why the region to the left of the vertical dashed line in Fig. 5.4 is a region of *velocity instability*.

The opposite occurs at velocities higher than that for minimum $T_R$, that is, to the right of the dashed vertical line in Fig. 5.4. As shown in Fig. 5.6b, a momentary increase in velocity $\Delta V = V_2 - V_1$ causes a momentary increase in $T_R$ (hence drag). Since the throttle is not touched, momentarily the drag will be higher than the engine thrust, and the airplane will slow down; that is, it will tend to return back to its original point 1. This is a *stable condition*. Similarly, a momentary decrease in velocity $\Delta V = V_3 - V_1$ causes a momentary decrease in $T_R$ (hence, drag). Since the throttle is not touched, momentarily the drag will be less than the engine thrust, and the airplane will speed up; that is, it will tend to return to its original point 1. Again, this is a *stable condition*. This is why the region to the right of the vertical dashed line in Fig. 5.4 is a region of *velocity stability*.

## 5.3.2 Analytical Approach

In this section we examine the thrust required curve from an analytical point of view, exploring the equations and looking for interesting relationships between the important parameters that dictate thrust required (drag).

For steady, level flight we have from Eqs. (5.3) and (5.4)

$$
T_R = D = \frac{D}{W}W = \frac{D}{L}W
$$

or

$$
T_R = \frac{W}{L/D}
$$

[5.7]