28

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

into the constant-speed propeller, where the pitch was automatically controlled so as to maintain constant revolutions per minute (rpm) over the flight range of the airplane. Because the power output of the reciprocating engine varies with rotational speed, by having a propeller in which the pitch is continuously and automatically varied to maintain constant engine speed, the net power output of the engine-propeller combination can be maintained at an optimum value.

Another important advance in the area of propulsion was the development of high-octane aviation fuel, although it was eclipsed by the more visibly obvious breakthroughs in the 1930s such as the NACA cowling, retractable landing gear, and the variable-pitch propeller. Engine “pinging,” an audible local detonation in the engine cylinder caused by premature ignition, had been observed as long ago as 1911. An additive to the gasoline, tetraethyl lead, was found by C. F. Kettering of General Motors Delco to reduce this engine knocking. In turn, General Motors and Standard Oil formed a new company, Ethyl Gasoline Corporation, to produce “ethyl” gasoline with a lead additive. Later, the hydrocarbon compound of octane was also found to be effective in preventing engine knocking. In 1930, the Army Air Corps adopted 87-octane gasoline as its standard fuel; in 1935, this standard was increased to 100 octane. The introduction of 100-octane fuel allowed much higher compression ratios inside the cylinder, and hence more power for the engine. For example, the introduction of 100-octane fuel, as well as other technological improvements, allowed Curtiss-Wright Aeronautical Corporation to increase the power of its R-1820 Cyclone engine from 500 to 1,200 hp in the 1930s—by no means a trivial advancement.

In subsequent chapters, we will come to appreciate that, when a new airplane is designed, the choice of wing area is usually dictated by speed at takeoff or landing (or alternatively by the desired takeoff or landing distances along a runway). The wing area must be large enough to provide sufficient lift at takeoff or landing; this criterion dictates the ratio of airplane weight to wing area, that is, the wing loading $W/S$—one of the most important parameters in airplane performance and design. After the airplane has taken off and accelerated to a much higher cruising speed, the higher-velocity airflow over the wing creates a larger pressure difference between the upper and lower wing surfaces, and hence the lift required to sustain the weight of the airplane can be created with a smaller wing area. From this point of view, the extra wing area required for takeoff and landing is extra baggage at cruising conditions, resulting in higher structural weight and increased skin friction drag. The design of airplanes in the era of strut-and-wire biplanes constantly suffered from this compromise. However, a partial solution surfaced in the late 1920s and 1930s, namely, the development of high-lift devices—flaps, slats, slots, etc. Figure 1.21 illustrates some of the standard high-lift devices employed on aircraft since the 1920s, along with a scale of lift coefficient indicating the relative increase in lift provided by each device. By employing such high-lift devices, sufficient lift can be obtained at takeoff and landing with wings of smaller area, hence allowing airplane designers the advantage of high wing loadings at cruise. High-lift devices were one of the important technical developments during the era of the mature propeller-driven airplane. Let us examine the history of that development in greater detail.