352  PART 2 • Airplane Performance

time to climb from altitude $h_1$ to altitude $h_2$ when the airplane has accelerated (or decelerated) from velocity $V_{\infty,1}$ at altitude $h_1$ to velocity $V_{\infty,2}$ at altitude $h_2$.

The time to climb $t_2 - t_1$ between $H_{e,1}$ and $H_{e,2}$ is not a unique value—it depends on the flight path taken in the altitude-Mach number map. Examine again Fig. 6.11. In changing from $H_{e,1}$ to $H_{e,2}$, there are an infinite number of variations of altitude and Mach number that will get you there. In terms of Eq. (6.68), there are an infinite number of different values of the integral because there are an infinite number of different possible variations of $dH_e/P_s$ between $H_{e,1}$ and $H_{e,2}$. However, once a specific path in Fig. 6.11 is chosen between $H_{e,1}$ and $H_{e,2}$ then $dH_e/P_s$ has a definite variation along this path, and a specific value of $t_2 - t_1$ is obtained.

This discussion has particular significance to the calculation of minimum time to climb to a given altitude, which is a unique value. There is a unique path in the altitude-Mach number map that corresponds to minimum time to climb. We can see how to construct this path by examining Eq. (6.68). The time to climb will be a minimum when $P_s$ is a maximum value. Looking at Fig. 6.11, for each $H_e$ curve, we see there is a point where $P_s$ is a maximum. Indeed, at this point the $P_s$ curve is tangent to the $H_e$ curve. Such points are illustrated by points $A$ to $I$ in Fig. 6.11. The heavy curve through these points illustrates the variation of altitude and Mach number along the flight path for minimum time to climb. Along this path (the heavy curve), $dH_e/P_s$ varies in a definite way, and when these values of $dH_e/P_s$ are used in calculating the integral in Eq. (6.68), the resulting value of $t_2 - t_1$ is the minimum time to climb between $H_{e,1}$ and $H_{e,2}$. In general, there is no analytical form of the integral in Eq. (6.68); it is usually evaluated numerically.

We note in Fig. 6.11 that the segment of the flight path between $D$ and $D'$ represents a constant energy dive to accelerate through the drag-divergence region near Mach 1. We also note that Eq. (6.68) gives the time to climb between two energy heights, not necessarily that between two different altitudes. However, at any given constant energy height, kinetic energy can be traded for potential energy, and the airplane can “zoom” to higher altitudes until all the kinetic energy is spent. For example, in Fig. 6.11 point $I$ corresponds to $P_s = 0$. The airplane cannot achieve any further increase in energy height. However, after arriving at point $I$, the airplane can zoom to a minimum altitude equal to the value of $H_e$ at point $I$—in Fig. 6.11, a maximum altitude well above 100,000 ft. After the end of the zoom, $V_\infty = 0$ (by definition) and the corresponding value of $h$ is the maximum obtainable altitude for accelerated flight conditions, achieved in a minimum amount of time.

---

**Example 6.5** Consider an airplane with an instantaneous acceleration of $8\ \text{ft/s}^2$ at an instantaneous velocity of 800 ft/s. At the existing flight conditions, the specific excess power is 300 ft/s. Calculate the instantaneous maximum rate of climb that can be obtained at these accelerated flight conditions.

**Solution**

From Eq. (6.66)

$$
\frac{dh}{dt} = P_s - \frac{V_\infty}{g} A = 300 - \frac{800}{32.2}(8) = 101\ \text{ft/s}
$$