# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

it is always found in combination with the wing area $W/S$ or the thrust-to-weight ratio $T_R/W$. Moreover, the *thrust loading* $T_R/S$ can always be replaced with $T_R/W$ because

$$
\frac{T_R}{W} = \frac{T_R/S}{W/S}
$$

Hence, *the thrust-to-weight ratio and the wing loading are fundamental parameters for airplane performance,* rather than just the thrust by itself and the weight by itself.

The equations in Section 5.3.2 also highlight the importance of $C_{D,0}$ and $K$, that is, the drag polar. These are the primary descriptors of the external aerodynamic properties of the airplane, and it stands to reason that they would appear prominently in the equations for airplane performance.

For steady, level flight, the lift-to-drag ratio is simply the reciprocal of the thrust-to-weight ratio:

$$
\frac{L}{D} = \left(\frac{T_R}{W}\right)^{-1}
\qquad \text{Steady, level flight}
$$

Hence, for such a case, to discuss $L/D$ and $T_R/W$ is somewhat redundant. However, for accelerated flight (turning flight, takeoff, etc.) and climbing flight, $T_R/W$ and $L/D$ are different, and each one takes on its own significance. We have frequently emphasized the importance of $L/D$ as a stand-alone indicator of aerodynamic efficiency. Let us examine further the implication of this ratio for airplane performance.

For the restricted case of a given airplane in steady, level flight, we have noted that the lift-to-drag ratio is a function of velocity; Fig. 5.8 is a plot of the variation of $L/D$ with $V_\infty$ for the Gulfstream IV in Example 5.1. The results shown in Fig. 5.8 are obtained directly from the tabulation and graphical approach described in Section 5.3.1. However, an equation for the curve shown in Fig. 5.8 is easily obtained by dividing Eq. (5.12) by the weight.

$$
\frac{D}{W} = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 \frac{S}{W} C_{D,0} + \frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}\frac{S}{W}\left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^2
\tag{5.25}
$$

Since $L = W$ for steady, level flight, Eq. (5.25) can be written as

$$
\frac{D}{L} = \frac{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 C_{D,0}}{2(W/S)} + \frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}\frac{W}{S}
$$

or

$$
\frac{L}{D} = \left(\frac{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 C_{D,0}}{2(W/S)} + \frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{-1}
\tag{5.26}
$$

Equation (5.26) is the analytical equation for the curve shown in Fig. 5.8. Note in Eq. (5.26) that $W$ and $S$ do not appear separately, but in the form of the wing loading $W/S$. Once again we are reminded of the fundamental nature of the wing loading.