# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

variations of $c_l$ with $\alpha$). The drag coefficient in this figure is labeled the section drag coefficient; it is also frequently called the *profile drag coefficient*. Profile drag is a combination of two types of drag:

$$
\text{Profile drag} = \left[\text{skin-friction drag}\right] + \left[\text{pressure drag due to flow separation}\right]
$$

*Skin-friction drag* is self-explanatory; it is due to the frictional shear stress acting on the surface of the airfoil. *Pressure drag due to flow separation* is caused by the imbalance of the pressure distribution in the drag direction when the boundary layer separates from the airfoil surface. (Note that, for an inviscid flow with no flow separation, theoretically the pressure distribution on the back portion of the airfoil creates a force pushing forward, which is exactly balanced by the pressure distribution on the front portion of the airfoil pushing backward. Hence, in a subsonic inviscid flow over a two-dimensional body, there is no net pressure drag on the airfoil—this phenomenon is called *d’Alembert’s paradox* after the eighteenth-century mathematician who first obtained the result. In contrast, when the flow separates from the airfoil, the integrated pressure distribution becomes unbalanced between the front and back parts of the airfoil, producing a net drag force. This is the pressure drag due to flow separation.) Frequently, the pressure drag due to flow separation is called simply the *form drag*. In coefficient form, we have

$$
c_d = c_f + c_{d,p}
$$

$$
\left(\text{Profile drag coefficient}\right) = \left(\text{skin-friction drag coefficient}\right) + \left(\text{form drag coefficient, or pressure drag coefficient due to flow separation}\right) \qquad [2.26]
$$

For relatively thin airfoils and wings, $c_f$ can be approximated by formulas for a flat plate. But even here there are major uncertainties in regard to the transition of laminar flow to turbulent flow in the boundary layer. Turbulence is still a major unsolved problem in classical physics, and the prediction of where on a surface transition occurs is uncertain. For a purely laminar flow, $c_f$ for a flat plate in incompressible flow is given by

$$
c_f = \frac{1.328}{\sqrt{\mathrm{Re}}} \qquad \text{laminar} \qquad [2.27]
$$

where $c_f = D_f/(q_\infty S)$, $\mathrm{Re} = \rho_\infty V_\infty c/\mu_\infty$, $D_f$ is the friction drag on *one side* of the flat plate, $S$ is the planform area of the plate, $c$ is the length of the plate in the flow direction (the chord length for an airfoil), and $\rho_\infty$, $V_\infty$, and $\mu_\infty$ are the free-stream density, velocity, and viscosity coefficient, respectively. Equation (2.27) is an *exact* theoretical relation for laminar incompressible flow over a flat plate. No such exact result exists for turbulent flow. Instead, a number of different approximate relations have been developed over the years. The results of various empirical flat-plate formulas for incompressible turbulent flow are shown in Fig. 2.38, where $c_f$ is plotted versus Re. For reference, the Karman-Schoenherr curve shown in Fig. 2.38