218

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## Example 5.3

For the Gulfstream IV at the conditions given in Example 5.1, calculate the value of $L/D$ for a velocity of 400 ft/s. Compare the calculated result with Fig. 5.8.

**Solution**

From Example 5.1, $W = 73{,}000$ lb, $S = 950$ ft$^2$, $C_{D,0} = 0.015$, $K = 0.08$, and $\rho_\infty = 8.9068 \times 10^{-4}$ slug/ft$^3$. The wing loading is

$$
\frac{W}{S} = \frac{73{,}000}{950} = 76.84 \ \text{lb/ft}^2
$$

From Eq. (5.26)

$$
\frac{L}{D} = \left( \frac{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 C_{D,0}}{2W/S} + \frac{2K}{\rho_\infty V_\infty^2}\frac{W}{S} \right)^{-1}
$$

$$
= \left[ \frac{(8.9068 \times 10^{-4})(400)^2(0.015)}{2(76.84)} + \frac{2(0.08)(76.84)}{(8.9068 \times 10^{-4})(400)^2} \right]^{-1}
$$

$$
\frac{L}{D} = 9.98
$$

Examining Fig. 5.8, we see that the value calculated above for $L/D$ agrees with the value on the curve for $V_\infty = 400$ ft/s.

Consider the maximum value of $L/D$; clearly, from Fig. 5.8 we see that $L/D$ goes through a maximum value $(L/D)_{\max}$, and we know from Section 5.3.3 that this point corresponds to minimum $T_R$. Indeed, examining Eq. (5.26), we might assume that the value of $(L/D)_{\max}$ would depend on the drag polar ($C_{D,0}$ and $K$), the wing loading, and the altitude (via $\rho_\infty$). However, we have already shown that $(L/D)_{\max}$ depends *only* on the drag polar, and not on the other parameters; this result is given by Eq. (5.24). On the other hand, the *velocity* at which maximum $L/D$ is achieved *does* depend on altitude and wing loading, as shown in Eq. (5.22). Let us examine in a more general fashion these and other matters associated with maximum $L/D$.

## 5.4.1 Aerodynamic Relations Associated with Maximum $C_L/C_D$, $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$, and $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$

Equation (5.24) for $(L/D)_{\max}$ was derived from a consideration of minimizing thrust required in steady, level flight. In reality, Eq. (5.24) is much more general, and the same result can be obtained by a simple consideration of the lift-to-drag ratio completely independent of any consideration of $T_R$, as follows. The lift-to-drag ratio is

$$
\frac{L}{D} = \frac{C_L}{C_D} = \frac{C_L}{C_{D,0} + KC_L^2}
\qquad [5.27]
$$