# CHAPTER 9 • Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

535

the Blackbird—a temperature hotter than the average soldering iron. The wing and fuselage encounter surface temperatures on the order of 450° to 500°F—hotter than the maximum available in a household oven. These surface temperatures dictated the use of titanium rather than aluminum for the airplane's skin and internal structure, as already mentioned. To handle the aerodynamic heating, two measures were taken. The fuel was used as a heat sink, to precool the hot compressor bleed air for the air conditioning for the cockpit, and then the hot fuel was fed directly to the engine. Also, radiative cooling of the surface was used. Recall that a surface at a temperature $T$ radiates thermal energy which is given by

$$
E_R = \epsilon \sigma T^4
$$

where $E_R$ is the rate of radiative energy emitted per unit area, $\sigma$ is the Stefan-Boltzmann constant, and $\epsilon$ is the emissivity which varies from 0 to 1. The higher the emissivity, the more the surface is cooled by radiation. This is the reason why the Blackbird is painted a very dark blue-black color, to increase the emissivity and hence the radiative cooling. Even though the paint added close to an extra 100 lb to the airplane, it lowered the wing temperature by 35°F, allowing the use of a softer titanium alloy and hence improving the manufacturing processes for the airplane. Here is yet another design compromise—trading weight for an increase in manufacturing ease, something very important when titanium is being used.

The Blackbird has all-moving vertical tails, with no rudder surfaces. An investigation of conventional rudders early in the conceptual design stage showed that very large rudder deflections would be required to balance an engine-out condition. This was considered an inadequate control authority. Moreover, at such large rudder deflections, the rudder hinge line exposed to the flow would encounter a large stagnation temperature, causing local aerodynamic heating problems. The solution to both these problems was to dispense with rudders and use all-moving vertical tails. Although all-moving horizontal tails (equipped also with elevators) had been used as early as 1947 (e.g., on the Bell X-1 and the North American F-86), the use of all-moving vertical tails (without rudders) for the Blackbird appears to be an innovative first. The vertical tails were also not vertical. Figure 9.43 shows the front view of the airplane with the orientations of the vertical tails, one with the tails exactly vertical and one with the vertical tails canted inward by a 15° angle. When there is a side force on the vertical tail, the center of pressure on the tail is above the longitudinal axis through the center of gravity, hence causing a rolling moment about that axis. This is shown in Fig. 9.43. By canting the tails inward, the side force acts through a smaller moment arm, hence reducing the rolling moment. The final design configuration of the Blackbird incorporated the canted vertical tails, as seen in Fig. 9.37.

The Blackbird is powered by two Pratt & Whitney J-58 bleed bypass turbojet engines, especially designed for use on this airplane. Each engine produces more than 30,000 lb of thrust at sea-level static conditions. The engine also uses a special low-vapor-pressure hydrocarbon fuel called JP-7. The combined inlet-engine combination is an interesting example of airframe-propulsion integration in the following sense. The inlet is an axisymmetric spike inlet, with a center cone that translates forward and backward. The location of the spike is automatically changed during flight to maintain