CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight 295

From Eq. (5.142), $dW_f = dW$. Equation (5.148) then becomes

$$
ds = -\frac{V_\infty}{c_t T}\, dW = -\frac{V_\infty}{c_t}\frac{W}{T}\frac{dW}{W}
$$

[5.149]

In steady, level flight, $L = W$ and $T = D$. Hence Eq. (5.149) can be written as

$$
ds = -\frac{V_\infty}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\frac{dW}{W}
$$

[5.150]

The range of the airplane is obtained by integrating Eq. (5.150) between $s = 0$, where the fuel tanks are full and hence $W = W_0$, and $s = R$, where the fuel tanks are empty and hence $W = W_1$.

$$
R = \int_0^R ds = -\int_{W_0}^{W_1} \frac{V_\infty}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\frac{dW}{W}
$$

or

$$
R = \int_{W_1}^{W_0} \frac{V_\infty}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\frac{dW}{W}
$$

[5.151]

where $W_0$ is the gross weight (with full fuel tanks) and $W_1$ is the weight with the fuel tanks empty. Equation (5.151) is a general equation for range; the only restriction is for steady, level flight with no headwinds or tailwinds. Equation (5.151) holds for a jet-propelled airplane with $c_t$ given directly by the engine performance, and for a propeller-driven airplane with a reciprocating engine, where an effective $c_t$ can be obtained from $c$ via Eq. (3.43).

Some parameters that influence range are clearly evident from Eq. (5.151). Not surprisingly, range is influenced by the lift-to-drag ratio, specific fuel consumption, velocity, and the initial amount of fuel (the difference between $W_0$ and $W_1$). However, these parameters are not all independent of one another. For example, $L/D$ depends on angle of attack, which depends on $V_\infty$, $W$, and altitude. For a given flight, if the variation of $L/D$, $V_\infty$, $c_t$, and $W$ are known throughout the duration of the flight, then Eq. (5.151) can be numerically integrated to *exactly* calculate the range.

For a preliminary performance analysis, Eq. (5.151) is usually simplified. If we assume flight at constant $V_\infty$, $c_t$, and $L/D$, Eq. (5.151) becomes

$$
R = \frac{V_\infty}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\int_{W_1}^{W_0} \frac{dW}{W}
$$

or

$$
R = \frac{V_\infty}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\ln\frac{W_0}{W_1}
$$

[5.152]

Equation (5.152) is frequently called the *Breguet range equation*, although the earliest form of the Breguet equation appeared at the end of World War I and was written in a slightly different form pertaining directly to propeller-driven airplanes with reciprocating engines. We will address such matters in Section 5.13.1.