72  
PART I • Preliminary Considerations

In Section 2.5, we saw how $dc_l/d\alpha$ and $dc_{m_{c/4}}/d\alpha$ are constant over the linear portions of the lift and moment curves; we denoted these constants by $a_0$ and $m_0$, respectively. Solving Eq. (2.13) for $x_{a.c.}/c$ yields

$$
\frac{x_{a.c.}}{c} = -\frac{dc_{m_{c/4}}/d\alpha}{dc_l/d\alpha} = -\frac{m_0}{a_0}
$$

[2.14]

Hence, Eq. (2.14) proves that, for a body with linear lift and moment curves, where $m_0$ and $a_0$ are fixed values, the aerodynamic center does exist as a fixed point on the airfoil. Moreover, Eq. (2.14) allows the calculation of this point.

## Example 2.4

For the NACA 2412 airfoil, calculate the location of the aerodynamic center.

### Solution

From the airfoil data shown in Fig. 2.6a, we can find $a_0$ and $m_0$ as follows. First, examining the lift coefficient curve in Fig. 2.6a, we can read off the following data:

At $\alpha = -8^\circ$ \qquad $c_l = -0.6$ \qquad at $\alpha = 8^\circ$ \qquad $c_l = 1.08$

Hence,

$$
a_0 = \frac{dc_l}{d\alpha} = \frac{1.08 - (-0.6)}{8^\circ - (-8^\circ)} = 0.105
$$

Examining the moment coefficient curve in Fig. 2.6a, we can read off the following data:

At $\alpha = -8^\circ$ \qquad $c_{m_{c/4}} = -0.045$ \qquad at $\alpha = 10^\circ$ \qquad $c_{m_{c/4}} = -0.035$

Hence,

$$
m_0 = \frac{dc_{m_{c/4}}}{d\alpha} = \frac{-0.035 - (-0.045)}{10^\circ - (-8^\circ)} = 5.56 \times 10^{-4}
$$

Thus, from Eq. (2.14),

$$
\frac{x_{a.c.}}{c} = -\frac{5.56 \times 10^{-4}}{0.105} = -0.0053
$$

Reflecting on Fig. 2.14, we see that the aerodynamic center is located $0.53\%$ of the chord length ahead of the quarter-chord point. This is very close to the quarter-chord point itself. Moreover, this result agrees exactly with the measured value quoted on page 183 of Abbott and Von Doenhoff (Ref. 19).

The result of Example 2.4 is not uncommon. For most standard airfoil shapes, the aerodynamic center is quite close to the quarter-chord point. Indeed, the results of thin airfoil theory (see, e.g., Ref. 16) predict that, for a cambered airfoil, the quarter-chord point is the aerodynamic center.