82

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

Prandtl's lifting line theory, hence Eq. (2.15), does not apply to low-aspect-ratio wings. Equation (2.15) holds for aspect ratios of about 4 or larger. Also, the lifting line theory does not predict the influence of AR on $C_{L_{\max}}$, which is governed by viscous effects. As sketched in Fig. 2.23, experiments show that as AR is reduced, $C_{L_{\max}}$ is also reduced, and that maximum lift occurs at higher angles of attack.

Equation (2.15) for the lift slope of the finite wing applies to incompressible flow, which limits its use to low-speed aircraft. However, during World War II, the flight velocities of many straight-wing subsonic airplanes penetrated well into the compressible flow regime (flow Mach numbers of 0.3 and higher). Today most straight-wing turboprop-powered civil transports and business airplanes fly routinely in the subsonic compressible flow regime. For this flight regime, Eq. (2.15) must be modified by an appropriate *compressibility correction*. Historically, the first and simplest compressibility correction was derived independently by Ludwig Prandtl in Germany and by Hermann Glauert in England in the 1920s for the case of subsonic compressible flow over airfoils. Called the *Prandtl-Glauert rule*, it allowed the incompressible lift slope for an airfoil to be modified for compressibility effects; we have already discussed this modification in conjunction with the trends shown in Figs. 2.10 and 2.12. For a high-aspect-ratio straight wing, we will also use the Prandtl-Glauert rule for a compressibility correction.

This is carried out as follows. Consider a thin *airfoil* at small to moderate angle of attack. Denote the low-speed, incompressible lift slope for this airfoil by $a_0$, as in Eq. (2.15). Denote the high-speed compressible value of the lift slope for the same airfoil at a free-stream Mach number $M_\infty$ by $a_{0,\mathrm{comp}}$. The *Prandtl-Glauert rule* is

$$
a_{0,\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{a_0}{\sqrt{1 - M_\infty^2}}
$$

Let us assume that Eq. (2.15), which is obtained from Prandtl's lifting line theory, also holds for subsonic compressible flow, that is,

$$
a_{\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{a_{0,\mathrm{comp}}}{1 + a_{0,\mathrm{comp}}/(\pi e_1 AR)}
\qquad [2.15a]
$$

where $a_{\mathrm{comp}}$ is the compressible lift slope for the finite wing. Replacing $a_{0,\mathrm{comp}}$ in Eq. (2.15a) with the Prandtl-Glauert rule, we have

$$
a_{\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{a_0/\sqrt{1 - M_\infty^2}}{1 + a_0/(\pi e_1 AR \sqrt{1 - M_\infty^2})}
$$

or

$$
a_{\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{a_0}{\sqrt{1 - M_\infty^2} + a_0/(\pi e_1 AR)}
\qquad [2.16]
$$

Subsonic high-aspect-ratio straight wing  
(compressible)

where $M_\infty$ is the free-stream Mach number. Equation (2.16) gives a quick, but approximate correction to the lift slope; because it is derived from linear subsonic flow theory (see, e.g., Ref. 16), it is not recommended for use for $M_\infty$ greater than 0.7. Figure 2.24 is an illustration of the variation of lift slope with free-stream Mach