# chapter 1

# The Evolution of the Airplane and Its Performance: A Short History

Instead of a palette of colors, the aeronautical engineer has his own artist’s palette of options. How he mixes these engineering options on his technological palette and applies them to his canvas (design) determines the performance of his airplane. When the synthesis is best it yields synergism, a result that is dramatically greater than the sum of its parts. This is hailed as “innovation.” Failing this, there will result a mediocre airplane that may be good enough, or perhaps an airplane of lovely external appearance, but otherwise an iron peacock that everyone wants to forget.

Richard Smith, Aeronautical Historian  
From *Milestones of Aviation*,  
National Air and Space Museum, 1989

## 1.1 INTRODUCTION

The next time you are outside on a clear day, look up. With some likelihood, you will see evidence of an airplane—possibly a small, private aircraft hanging low in the sky, slowly making its way to some nearby destination (such as the Cessna 172 shown in Fig. 1.1), or maybe a distinct white contrail high in the sky produced by a fast jet transport on its way from one end of the continent to the other (such as the Boeing 777 shown in Fig. 1.2). These airplanes—these *flying machines*—we take for granted today. The airplane is a part of everyday life, whether we simply see one, fly in one, or receive someone or something (package, letter, etc.) that was delivered by one. The invention and development of the airplane are arguably one of the three most important technical developments of the twentieth century—the other two being the electronics revolution and the unleashing of the power of the atom. The airplane has

3