84

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

where $a_{\mathrm{comp}}$ is per radian. The variation of lift slope predicted by Eq. (2.17) is shown as the dashed curve at the right in Fig. 2.24.

## Example 2.5

Consider a straight wing of aspect ratio 6 with an NACA 2412 airfoil. Assuming low-speed flow, calculate the lift coefficient at an angle of attack of $6^\circ$. For this wing, the span effectiveness factor $e_1 = 0.95$.

### Solution

From Fig. 2.6a, $a_0 = 0.105$ per degree and $\alpha_{L=0} = -2.2^\circ$. The lift slope is given by Eq. (2.15).

$$
a = \frac{a_0}{1 + a_0/(\pi e_1 AR)}
$$

where $a$ and $a_0$ are *per radian*.

$$
a_0 = 0.105 \text{ per degree } = (0.105)(57.3) = 6.02 \text{ per radian}
$$

Hence, from Eq. (2.15),

$$
a = \frac{6.02}{1 + 6.02/[\pi(0.95)(6)]} = 4.51 \text{ per radian}
$$

or

$$
a = \frac{4.51}{57.3} = 0.079 \text{ per degree}
$$

$$
C_L = a(\alpha - \alpha_{L=0}) = 0.079[6 - (-2.2)] = \boxed{0.648}
$$

*Note:* Comparing the above result for a finite wing with that for the airfoil as obtained in Example 2.3, we have for $\alpha = 6^\circ$

Airfoil: $c_l = 0.85$  
Finite wing: $C_L = 0.648$

As expected, the finite aspect ratio reduces the lift coefficient; in this case, for AR = 6, the reduction is by 24%—a nontrivial amount. For lower aspect ratios, the reduction will be even greater.

## Example 2.6

What is the lift coefficient for the same wing at the same angle of attack as in Example 2.5, but for a free-stream Mach number of 0.7?

### Solution

From Eq. (2.16),

$$
a_{\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{a_0}{\sqrt{1 - M_\infty^2} + a_0/(\pi e_1 AR)}
$$

where $a_0$ is the *incompressible* lift slope for the *airfoil* and $a_{\mathrm{comp}}$ is the *compressible* lift slope for the *finite wing*. From Fig. 2.6a, $a_0 = 0.105$ per degree $= 6.02$ per radian. Hence,

$$
a_{\mathrm{comp}} = \frac{6.02}{\sqrt{1 - (0.7)^2} + 6.02/[\pi(0.95)(6)]} = 5.73 \text{ per radian}
$$