# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

labeled the DC-2. The first DC-2 was delivered to TWA on May 14, 1934. Altogether, Douglas manufactured 156 DC-2s in 20 different models, and the airplane was used by airlines around the world. It set new standards for comfort and speed in commercial air travel. But the airplane that really made such travel an *economic success* for the airlines was the next outgrowth of the DC-2, namely, the DC-3.

As in the case of the DC-1, the DC-3 was a result of an airline initiative, not a company initiative. Once again, the requirements for a new airplane were being set by the customer. This time the airline was American Airlines, and the principal force behind the idea was its tall, soft-spoken, but determined Texan Cyrus R. Smith. C. R. Smith had become president of American Airlines on May 13, 1934. American Airlines was operating sleeper service, using older Curtiss Condor biplanes outfitted with pullman-sized bunks. On one flight of this airplane during the summer of 1934, Smith, accompanied by his chief engineer, Bill Littlewood, almost subconsciously remarked, “Bill, what we need is a DC-2 sleeper plane.” Littlewood said that he thought it could be done. Smith lost no time. He called Douglas to ask if the DC-2 could be made into a sleeper airplane. Douglas was not very receptive to the idea. Indeed, the company was barely able to keep up with its orders for the DC-2. Smith, however, would not take no for an answer. The long-distance call went on for 2 h, costing Smith over $300. Finally, after Smith virtually promised that American Airlines would buy 20 of the sleeper airplanes, Douglas reluctantly agreed to embark on a design study. Smith’s problem was that he had just committed American Airlines to a multimillion-dollar order for a new airplane that was just in the imagination of a few men at that time, and the airline did not have that kind of money. However, Smith then traveled to Washington to visit his friend and fellow Texan Jesse Jones, who was the head of Reconstruction Finance Corporation, a New Deal agency set up by President Franklin Roosevelt to help U.S. business. Smith got his money—a $4,500,000 loan from the government. The new project, the Douglas Sleeper Transport, the DST, was on its way.

Design work on the DST, which was quickly to evolve into the DC-3, started in earnest in the fall of 1934. Once again, model tests from the Cal Tech wind tunnel were indispensable. The new design outwardly looked like a DC-2. But the fuselage had been widened and lengthened, the wingspan increased, and the shape of the rudder and vertical stabilizer were different. In the words of Arthur Raymond (Ref. 60): “From the DC-1 to the DC-2, the changes were minor; from the DC-2 to the DC-3, they amounted to a new airplane.” The different plan view shapes of the DC-2 and DC-3 are shown in Fig. 8.42. The wind tunnel tests at Cal Tech were overseen by Professor A. L. Klein and Bailey Oswald. During the tests, a major stability problem was encountered. Klein stated: “The bigger plane with its change in the center of gravity had produced the stability of a drunk trying to walk a straight line.” However, by slightly modifying the wing and changing the airfoil section, the airplane was made stable; indeed, the DST finally proved to be one of the most stable airplanes in existence at that time. The first flight of the DST was on December 17, 1935. After the efforts of over 400 engineers and drafters, the creation of 3,500 drawings, and some 300 wind tunnel tests, the airplane flew beautifully. American Airlines began service of the DST on June 25, 1936.

The distinguishing aspects of the DST compared to the DC-2 were that its payload was one-third greater and its gross weight was about 50% larger. These aspects did