364

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

$$
n=\frac{L}{W}=\frac{\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}(1.15V_{\text{stall}})^2S(0.9)(C_L)_{\max}}{W}
$$
[6.96]

From Eq. (5.67), the weight in Eq. (6.96) can be expressed in terms of $(C_L)_{\max}$ and $V_{\text{stall}}$ as

$$
W=\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}(V_{\text{stall}})^2S(C_L)_{\max}
$$
[6.97]

Substituting Eq. (6.97) into Eq. (6.96), we have

$$
n=\frac{\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}(1.15V_{\text{stall}})^2S(0.9)(C_L)_{\max}}{\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}(V_{\text{stall}})^2S(C_L)_{\max}}
$$

or

$$
n=1.19
$$

Returning to Eq. (6.41), with $V_{\infty}=1.15V_{\text{stall}}$ and $n=1.19$, we have

$$
R=\frac{(1.15V_{\text{stall}})^2}{g(1.19-1)}
$$

or

$$
R=\frac{6.96(V_{\text{stall}}^2)}{g}
$$
[6.98]

In Fig. 6.16, $\theta_{OB}$ is the included angle of the flight path between the point of takeoff and that for clearing the obstacle of height $h_{OB}$. From this figure, we see that

$$
\cos\theta_{OB}=\frac{R-h_{OB}}{R}=1-\frac{h_{OB}}{R}
$$

or

$$
\theta_{OB}=\cos^{-1}\left(1-\frac{h_{OB}}{R}\right)
$$
[6.99]

Also from the geometry of Fig. 6.16, we have

$$
s_a=R\sin\theta_{OB}
$$
[6.100]

In summary, to calculate the distance along the ground covered by the airborne segment:

1. Calculate $R$ from Eq. (6.98).
2. For the given obstacle height $h_{OB}$, calculate $\theta_{OB}$ from Eq. (6.99).
3. Calculate $s_a$ from Eq. (6.100).

### Example 6.6

Calculate the total takeoff distance for our Gulfstream-like airplane at standard sea level, assuming a takeoff gross weight of 73,000 lb. The design features of the airplane are the same as those given in Example 5.1, with the added information that the wingspan is 75 ft. Assume that the variation of engine thrust with velocity during takeoff is given by Eq. (6.74), where