526

PART 3 • Airplane Design

the inlet is not at the nose of the airplane; rather, it is strategically placed underneath the fuselage more than one-quarter of the fuselage length downstream of the nose. Wind tunnel tests indicated that with the inlet underneath the fuselage, the fuselage provided a shielding effect for the inlet which was beneficial at the high angles of attack that would be encountered during dogfighting. The rearward placement of the inlet was to allow as short a duct to the engine as possible, thus saving both duct and fuselage weight (a savings of 1 lb was obtained per linear inch of duct length reduced). There was also a synergistic effect. With the duct in a more forward position, there was an increased directional destabilization which would have required a large (hence heavier) vertical tail. With the more rearward inlet location, there was a reduction of the destabilization effect, and the vertical tail was made smaller, hence saving additional weight. In the design of the F-16, the duct length was ultimately made the absolute minimum consistent with quality flow into the engine.

On April 14, 1972, the Air Force awarded contracts to General Dynamics and Northrop to build two prototypes each of a lightweight fighter; the YF-16 was the General Dynamics design, and the Northrop candidate was labeled the YF-17. Over the next 20 months, General Dynamics completed the preliminary and detail design phases, and the first of the two YF-16 prototypes was rolled out of the factory on December 13, 1973. On January 20, 1974, during one of the high-speed taxi tests, the all-moving horizontal tail was damaged, and the test pilot elected to takeoff; hence, the first flight of the F-16 was totally unscheduled. The official first flight took place on February 2, 1974. By February 5, it had flown beyond Mach 1. After a competitive fly-off program between the YF-16 and YF-17, on January 13, 1975, the Air Force announced that the winner was the F-16. The first production item, the F-16A, entered active service with the Air Force on January 6, 1979. Since then, more than 4,000 F-16s in various versions have been produced.

The airplane has gone through many design modifications since its early conceptual design discussed above; as expected, among these was a growth in weight. The maximum weight at which the prototype YF-16 was flown was 27,000 lb; the maximum takeoff weight of the F-16C is 42,300 lb with full external fuel tanks and ordnance. The performance capability of the F-16 is a maximum level speed at 40,000 ft of above Mach 2, a service ceiling of more than 50,000 ft, and a radius of action, depending on external stores, of between 230 and 850 mi.

As a final note in our discussion of the F-16, the airplane has been very long-lived. At the time of writing, it was almost 15 years ago that the YF-16 made its first flight. Today, the F-16 is still in production. This is a major example of the longevity of modern airplane designs, in contrast to the 1930-1940 period when large numbers of new airplane designs were surfacing every year, and the effective lifespan of a given airplane was closer to 5 years than 25 years. More about this phenomenon will be said in the Postface at the end of this book. For the F-16, even the manufacturer's name has changed, not once but twice, during its production history. On March 1, 1993, the Tactical Military Aircraft Division of General Dynamics at Fort Worth, Texas, which has designed and manufactured the F-16, was bought by Lockheed and became Lockheed Fort Worth Company. Two years later, Lockheed was bought by Martin-Marietta, becoming Lockheed-Martin Company. The F-16 started life as the General Dynamics F-16. Today, it lives on as the Lockheed-Martin F-16.