# Chapter 5

# Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

We have the aerodynamic knowledge, the structural materials, the power plants, and the manufacturing capacities to perform any conceivable miracle in aviation. But miracles must be planned, nurtured, and executed with intelligence and hard work.

Glenn L. Martin, aviation  
pioneer and manufacturer, 1954

## 5.1 INTRODUCTION

A three-view of the Gulfstream IV twin-turbofan executive transport is shown in Fig. 5.1. This airplane is considered one of the most advanced executive jet transports in existence today. The first flight of the prototype took place on September 19, 1985. On June 12, 1987, a regular production model took off from le Bourget Airport in Paris (the same airport at which Charles Lindbergh touched down on May 21, 1927, at the end of his famous transatlantic solo flight); 45 hours 25 minutes later, the same Gulfstream IV landed at le Bourget, setting a new world record for a westbound around-the-world flight (with four refueling stops). This length of time to fly around the world was only 12 h longer than it took Lindbergh to fly the Atlantic in 1927. The Gulfstream IV has a normal cruising speed of 528 mi/h at an altitude of 45,000 ft, which yields a cruising Mach number of 0.80. Its maximum range at cruising conditions with a maximum payload of 4,000 lb is 4,254 mi. The Gulfstream has a maximum rate of climb at sea level of 4,000 ft/min. Its stalling speed with flaps up is 141 mi/h; with the flaps down, the stalling speed reduces to 124 mi/h.

The facts and figures given above-are a partial description of the *performance* of the airplane. They pertain to the airplane in *steady flight*; that is, the airplane is experiencing *no acceleration*. Such performance for unaccelerated flight is called

199