18

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

3. The Wrights were very conscious of the importance of parasite drag, which in their day was called *head resistance.* They used empirical formulas obtained from Octave Chanute to estimate the head resistance for their machines. (Octave Chanute was a well-known civil and railroad engineer who had become very interested in aeronautics. He published in 1893 an important survey of past aeronautical work from around the world in a book entitled *Progress in Flying Machines.* It has become a classic—you can still buy reprinted copies today. From 1900, Octave Chanute was a close friend and confidant of the Wright brothers, giving them much encouragement during their intensive inventive work in 1900 to 1903.) The Wrights's choice of lying prone while flying their machines, rather than sitting up, or even dangling underneath as Lilienthal had done, was simply a matter of decreasing head resistance. In early 1903, they even tested a series of wooden struts in an airstream in order to find the cross-sectional shape that gave minimum drag. Unfortunately, they did not appreciate the inordinately high drag also produced by the supporting wires between the two wings. Of course, today we recognize that the struts and wires necessary to structurally strengthen biplane wing configurations are a major source of drag. In any event, the Wrights were very conscious of head resistance, and they attempted to keep it as low as they possibly could, given the state of their knowledge at that time.

The Wrights never quoted a value of $L/D$ for their 1903 *Wright Flyer*. Modern wind tunnel tests of models of the *Wright Flyer* carried out in 1982 and 1983 as reported in the paper by Culick and Jex (Ref. 12) indicate a maximum $L/D$ of 6. This value is totally consistent with values of $(L/D)_{\max}$ measured by Gustave Eiffel in 1910 in his large wind tunnel in Paris for models of a variety of aircraft of that time (see Ref. 8). Also, Loftin (Ref. 13) estimated a value for $(L/D)_{\max}$ of 6.4 for the Fokker E-III, an early World War I aircraft. *Hence, in 1903 the Wrights had achieved a value of $(L/D)_{\max}$ with their flyer that was as high as that for aircraft designed 10 years later.* Clearly, the Wrights had the aerodynamic aspect of airplane design well in hand.

The control features of the *Wright Flyer* are also one of the basic reasons for its success. The Wright brothers were the first to recognize the importance of flight control around all three axes of the aircraft. Pitch control, obtained by a deflection of all or part of the horizontal tail (or the forward canard such as on the *Wright Flyer*), and yaw control, obtained by deflection of the vertical rudder, were features recognized by investigators before the Wrights; for example, Langley's aerodrome had pitch and yaw controls. However, no one except the Wrights appreciated the value of roll control. Their novel idea of differentially warping the wing tips to control the rolling motion of the airplane, and to jointly control roll and yaw for coordinated turns, was one of their most important contributions to aeronautical engineering. Indeed, when Wilbur Wright finally carried out the first public demonstrations of their flying machines in LeMans, France, in August 1908, the two technical features of the Wright machines most appreciated and immediately copied by European aviators were their roll control and their efficient propeller design. Clearly, the Wrights had the flight control aspect of airplane design well in hand.