490

PART 3 • Airplane Design

Each of the aircraft was to be powered by the GE TG-180 axial-flow jet engine, then only in the design stage. The Army had such little experience with jet airplanes at the time that virtually the only requirement was that the airplanes in these studies be jet-powered. From these studies, in April 1944, the Army was able to establish a preliminary specification for a four-engine jet bomber. Convair, North American, and Boeing submitted design proposals which were very conventional airplanes with high-aspect-ratio straight wings and the jet engines mounted in nacelles that faired into the wings. Eventually, North American's design became the straight-wing B-45, the first U.S. jet bomber to go into service; the first flight of the B-45 was in March 1947, and 142 were manufactured.

The aerodynamicists at Boeing, however, were not satisfied with the performance of any of these straight-wing designs, including their own design. Wind tunnel data showed the critical Mach number for these designs to be lower than desired. As a result, they delayed submitting a detailed design to the Army Air Forces. Then, in May 1945, a technical intelligence team made up of U.S. scientists and engineers swept into a defeated Germany and discovered a mass of German test data on swept wings (see Section 1.2.4). One member of that team was George Schairer, a young Boeing aeronautical engineer who was participating in Boeing's jet bomber design. After studying the German data, Schairer quickly wrote to the design team, alerting them to the interesting design features of the swept wing and its potential for increasing the critical Mach number of the airplane. (For a more detailed discussion of the history of the swept wing and how its advantages were finally recognized by the U.S. aeronautical industry, see chapter 9 of Ref. 8.) The Boeing design team promptly dropped their straight-wing design and concentrated on the swept-wing configuration, not without some skepticism and opposition from other parts of the company. At that time, Boeing was fortunate to have its own large, high-speed wind tunnel, which went into service in 1944 after a 3-year period of development. The test section was 8 ft high, 12 ft wide, and 20 ft long. With an 18,000-hp synchronous motor, the tunnel was able to achieve Mach 0.975 with an empty test section. No other U.S. company had such a facility. The original decision in 1941 to build the wind tunnel was somewhat of a gamble on the part of Boeing executives—the gamble paid off royally after the war, because it was in this facility that Boeing was able to collect the necessary data for the design of a swept-wing jet bomber.

The design team worked through a number of different configurations. Figure 9.2 (from Ref. 63) shows the design evolution of what became the final configuration of the B-47. In addition to the swept wing, the location of the engines went through several design choices. Engine nacelles closely integrated with the wing (Fig. 9.2, top left) created an effective thickening of the wing, lowering the critical Mach number. When the engines were relocated to the top of the fuselage (Fig. 9.2, top and center part), the body had to be made wider and the jet exhaust would scrub the top of the airplane—both undesirable features. When the Boeing design team leaders Ed Wells and Bob Jewett took this configuration to Wright Field in Dayton in October 1945, the Army Air Forces Project Office resoundingly rejected it—and properly so. The Project Office wanted the engines to be mounted on the wing as was typical on past bombers. On the trip back to Seattle, Wells and Jewett conceived the idea of mounting