278

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

Finally, replacing $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ in Eq. (5.121) with Eq. (5.118), we obtain for a propeller-driven airplane,

$$
(R/C)_{\max}=\frac{\eta_{pr}P}{W}-\frac{2}{\rho_{\infty}}\sqrt{\frac{K}{3C_{D,0}}}\left(\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}\frac{1.155}{(L/D)_{\max}}
$$

[5.122]

Note from Eq. (5.122) that the dominant influence on $(R/C)_{\max}$ is the power-to-weight ratio $\eta_{pr}P/W$. More power means a higher rate of climb—intuitively obvious. The effect of wing loading is secondary, but interesting. From Eq. (5.118), $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ increases with an increase in $W/S$. However, from Eq. (5.122), $(R/C)_{\max}$ decreases with an increase in $W/S$. This is in contrast to the case of a jet-propelled airplane, where from Eq. (5.116) an increased wing loading increases $(R/C)_{\max}$. Hence, propeller-driven airplanes are penalized in terms of $(R/C)_{\max}$ if they have a high wing loading. Finally, the effect of increasing altitude is to increase $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ and decrease $(R/C)_{\max}$. Even for a supercharged reciprocating engine assuming constant $\eta_{pr}P/W$ with increasing altitude, Eq. (5.122) shows that $(R/C)_{\max}$ decreases with increasing altitude.

### Example 5.13

For the Gulfstream IV considered in the previous examples, do the following: (a) Calculate and plot the rate of climb versus velocity at sea level. Also plot the hodograph diagram. From these plots, graphically obtain $\theta_{\max}$, $V_{\theta\max}$, $(R/C)_{\max}$, and $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ at sea level. (b) Using the appropriate analytical expressions, calculate directly the values of $\theta_{\max}$, $V_{\theta\max}$, $(R/C)_{\max}$, and $V_{(R/C)_{\max}}$ at sea level. Compare the results obtained from the graphical and analytical solutions.

**Solution**

(a) *Graphical solution.* Rate of climb is calculated from Eq. (5.80), where the excess power is the difference between the maximum power available and the power required, or

$$
R/C=\frac{\text{excess power}}{W}=\frac{(P_A)_{\max}-P_R}{W}=\frac{(T_A)_{\max}V_{\infty}-DV_{\infty}}{W}
$$

Here $(T_A)_{\max}=27,700$ lb and is constant; $W=73,000$ lb. The power required $P_R$ is calculated as shown in Example 5.7. In this example, we are at sea level, where $\rho_0=0.002377$ slug/ft$^3$. See Table 5.4, page 279, for $(P_A)_{\max}$, $P_R$, and $R/C$ at different values of $V_{\infty}$.

Maximum power available, power required, and rate of climb are plotted versus velocity in Fig. 5.37. The hodograph diagram is shown in Fig. 5.38, where the same velocity scale is used on both axes. Using the same velocity scale produces a shallow hodograph curve, but this allows the measurement on Fig. 5.38 of the true angle for $\theta_{\max}$.

The graphical solutions given in Figs. 5.37 and 5.38 show that

$$
\theta_{\max}=18^\circ
$$

$$
V_{\theta\max}=375\ \text{ft/s}
$$

$$
(R/C)_{\max}=180\ \text{ft/s}
$$

$$
V_{(R/C)_{\max}}=750\ \text{ft/s}
$$