# CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight

envelope formed by the $P_s = 0$ contour. Hence, all values of $H_e$ inside this envelope are obtainable by the airplane. A comparison of figures like Fig. 6.11 for different airplanes will clearly show in what regions of altitude and Mach number an airplane has maneuver advantages over another.

## Rate of Climb and Time to Climb (Accelerated Performance)

Accelerated rate of climb and time to climb can be treated by energy considerations. The rate of climb with acceleration is easily found from Eq. (6.61), repeated here:

$$
P_s = \frac{dh}{dt} + \frac{V_\infty}{g}\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}
$$

Rate of climb Acceleration [6.61]

Consider an airplane at a given altitude and Mach number. This flight condition is represented by a specific point in the altitude-Mach number map, such as Fig. 6.9b. At this point, the airplane will have a certain value of $P_s$. Assume the airplane is accelerating, with a specified value of $dV_\infty/dt = A$. The rate of climb for this specified accelerated condition is, from Eq. (6.61),

$$
\frac{dh}{dt} = P_s - \frac{V_\infty}{g}A
$$

[6.66]

In Eq. (6.66), all quantities on the right-hand side are known or specified; the equation gives the instantaneous maximum rate of climb that can be achieved at the instantaneous velocity $V_\infty$ and the instantaneous acceleration $A$.

The time required for an airplane to change from one energy height $H_{e,1}$ to a larger energy height $H_{e,2}$ can be obtained as follows. From Eq. (6.65),

$$
dt = \frac{dH_e}{P_s}
$$

[6.67]

Integrating Eq. (6.67) between time $t_1$ where $H_e = H_{e,1}$ and time $t_2$ where $H_e = H_{e,2}$, we have

$$
t_2 - t_1 = \int_{H_{e,1}}^{H_{e,2}} \frac{dH_e}{P_s}
$$

[6.68]

Since $H_e = h + V_\infty^2/(2g)$, then

$$
H_{e,2} - H_{e,1} = h_2 - h_1 + \frac{1}{2g}\left(V_{\infty,2}^2 - V_{\infty,1}^2\right)
$$

or

$$
h_2 - h_1 = H_{e,2} - H_{e,1} - \frac{1}{2g}\left(V_{\infty,2}^2 - V_{\infty,1}^2\right)
$$

[6.69]

For a given $V_{\infty,2}$ at energy height $H_{e,2}$, and a given $V_{\infty,1}$ at energy height $H_{e,1}$, Eq. (6.69) gives the change in altitude $h_2 - h_1$ between these two conditions. Equation (6.68) gives the time required to achieve this change in altitude; that is, it gives the