# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

Therefore, the equation of the straight line through the drag-divergence point in Fig. 5.22 is

$$
D = D_{DD} + \frac{dD}{dV_{\infty}}(V - V_{DD})
$$

or

$$
D = 5{,}750 + 82.2(V - 815.7)
$$

This is the straight line shown in Fig. 5.22.

In summary, the drag curve for the Gulfstream IV, taking into account the effects of drag divergence based on the above assumptions, is modeled for the purposes of this example by the solid curve shown in Fig. 5.22.

The maximum velocity of the airplane is readily obtained from Fig. 5.22 by the intersection of the maximum thrust available curve with the drag (i.e., thrust required) curve. From Example 5.6, $(T_A)_{\max}$ at 30,000 ft is 15,371 lb, as shown in Fig. 5.22. The maximum velocity obtained from the intersection point is also shown in Fig. 5.22.

The value of $V_{\max}$ can also be obtained from the equation for the linear drag increase by replacing $D$ with $(T_A)_{\max}$ and $V$ with $V_{\max}$. That is, from

$$
D = 5{,}750 + 82.2(V - 815.7)
$$

we obtain

$$
(T_A)_{\max} = 5{,}750 + 82.2(V_{\max} - 815.7)
$$

Since $(T_A)_{\max}$ = 15,371 lb, we have

$$
15{,}371 = 5750 + 82.2(V_{\max} - 815.7)
$$

Solving for $V_{\max}$ gives

$$
V_{\max} = 933 \ \text{ft/s}
$$

This corresponds to a maximum Mach number of

$$
M_{\max} = \frac{V_{\max}}{a_{\infty}} = \frac{933}{994.7} = 0.938
$$

Comparing the above results with those obtained in Examples 5.6 and 5.9, where the effects of drag divergence were not included, we see that the present result is much more realistic. Here the maximum velocity of the airplane is below sonic speed, as appropriate to the class of subsonic executive jet transports represented by the Gulfstream IV.

---

In Example 5.10, the estimation of the drag in the drag-divergence region was guided by flight data for a different airplane, namely, the T-38 supersonic trainer. How close the actual drag-divergence behavior of the Gulfstream IV is to the drag curve plotted in Fig. 5.22 is a matter of conjecture. An alternate method for the estimation of the drag coefficient in the drag-divergence region for a generic airplane configuration is given by Raymer in Ref. 25. Raymer's suggested procedure is as follows:

1. The zero-lift wave drag coefficient $C_{D,W,0}$ is discussed in Section 2.9.2 and is defined in conjunction with Eq. (2.42). An estimation of $C_{D,W,0}$ at or above