318

PART 2 $\bullet$ Airplane Performance

**5.9** For the BD-5J use the analytical results to calculate directly  
(a) Maximum rate of climb at sea level and the velocity at which it occurs. Compare with your graphical result from Problem 5.7.  
(b) Maximum climb angle at sea level and the velocity at which it occurs.

**5.10** For a turbojet-powered airplane with the altitude variation of thrust given by Eq. (3.19), show that as the altitude increases, the maximum velocity decreases.

**5.11** Consider the BD-5J flying at 10,000 ft. Assume a sudden and total loss of engine thrust. Calculate (a) the minimum glide path angle, (b) the maximum range covered over the ground during the glide, and (c) the corresponding equilibrium glide velocities at 10,000 ft and at sea level.

**5.12** For the BD-5J, plot the maximum rate of climb versus altitude. From this graph, estimate the service ceiling.

**5.13** For the BD-5J, analytically calculate the service ceiling, and compare this result with the graphical solution obtained in Problem 5.12.

**5.14** Using the analytical approach described in Section 5.12.2, calculate the minimum time to climb to 10,000 ft for the BD-5J.

**5.15** For the BD-5J, estimate the maximum range at an altitude of 10,000 ft. Also, calculate the flight velocity required to obtain this range. *(Recall: All the pertinent airplane data, including the thrust specific fuel consumption, are given in Problem 5.1.)*

**5.16** For the BD-5J, estimate the maximum endurance.

**5.17** Calculate the maximum range at 10,000 ft for the BD-5J in a tailwind of 40 mi/h.

**5.18** In the worked examples in this chapter, the thrust available is assumed to be constant with velocity for the reasons explained at the end of Section 5.1. However, in reality, the thrust from a typical turbofan engine decreases with an increase in velocity. The purpose of this and the following problems is to revisit some of the worked examples, this time including a velocity variation for the thrust available. In this fashion we will be able to examine the effect of such a velocity variation on the performance of the airplane. The airplane is the same Gulfstream IV examined in the worked examples, with the same wing loading, drag polar, etc. However, now we consider the variation of thrust available given by

At sea level:

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_{V=0}} = 0.4M_\infty^{-0.6}
$$

(1)

At 30,000 ft:

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_{V=0}} = 0.222M_\infty^{-0.6}
$$

(2)

*Recall that $(T_A)_{V=0}$ is the thrust at sea level at zero velocity.*

(a) At sea level, plot the thrust available curve using Eq. (1) above, and the thrust required curve, both on the same graph. From this, obtain $V_{\max}$ at sea level.