410

PART 3 • Airplane Design

Eq. (8.24)

$$(C_L)_{\max} = 0.9(2.6)$$

$$(C_L)_{\max} = 2.34 \qquad [8.25]$$

We will treat this as $(C_L)_{\max}$ for the complete airplane, ignoring for the time being the effect of the fuselage, tail, and other parts of the configuration.

## 8.4.2 Wing Loading $WS$

In most airplane designs, wing loading is determined by considerations of $V_{\text{stall}}$ and landing distance. However, $W/S$ also plays a role in the maximum velocity of the airplane [see Eq. (5.50)]; $V_{\max}$ increases as $W/S$ increases. For our current airplane design, which is a low-speed aircraft, the primary constraints on $W/S$ will be $V_{\text{stall}}$ and landing, and we will take that approach. From Eq. (5.67), repeated here:

$$V_{\text{stall}} = \sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{(C_L)_{\max}}} \qquad [5.67]$$

solving Eq. (5.67) for $W/S$, we have

$$\frac{W}{S} = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_{\text{stall}}^2 (C_L)_{\max} \qquad [8.26]$$

The requirements specify $V_{\text{stall}} \leq 70 \operatorname{mi}/h = 102.7\ \mathrm{ft/s}$. Using $(C_L)_{\max}$ from Eq. (8.25) and making the calculation at sea level, where $\rho_\infty = 0.002377\ \mathrm{slug/ft^3}$, we have from Eq. (8.26)

$$\frac{W}{S} = \frac{1}{2}(0.002377)(102.7)^2(2.34) = 29.3\ \mathrm{lb/ft^2} \qquad [8.27]$$

Equation (8.27) gives us the value of $W/S$ constrained by the stalling velocity.

Let us examine the constraint imposed by the specified landing distance. In Fig. 6.17, the landing distance is the sum of the approach distance $s_a$, the flare distance $s_f$, and the ground roll $s_g$. The approach angle $\theta_a$ is given by Eq. (6.104), which requires knowledge of $L/D$ and $T/W$. Since we have not made estimates of either quantity yet, we assume, based on the rule of thumb that $\theta_a \leq 3^\circ$ for transport aircraft, that $\theta_a = 3^\circ$. Following the discussion of approach distance in Section 6.8.1, we have, from Eq. (6.107) for the flight path radius during flare,

$$R = \frac{V_f^2}{0.2g} \qquad [6.107]$$

In Eq. (6.107), $V_f$ is the average velocity during flare, given by $V_f = 1.23V_{\text{stall}}$. From our design, $V_f = 1.23(102.7) = 126.3\ \mathrm{ft/s}$. From Eq. (6.107)

$$R = \frac{(126.3)^2}{0.2(32.2)} = 2,477\ \mathrm{ft}$$