76

PART I • Preliminary Considerations

pressure point (for the symmetric thickness distribution at zero angle of attack) at 0.4$c$ from the leading edge. Its design lift coefficient is 0.2, and the maximum thickness is 12% of the chord (or 0.12$c$).

The variation of $c_d$ with $c_l$ (or $\alpha$) for the laminar-flow airfoils deserves some attention. The drag coefficient for the NACA 64-212 airfoil is shown in Fig. 2.18. Compare this with the drag curve shown in Fig. 2.6b for the NACA 2412. Note that, by comparison, the $c_d$ curve for the NACA 64-212 airfoil has a dip located in the range of low angle of attack, resulting in a considerably lower minimum drag coefficient (0.004 for the NACA 64-212 compared to 0.006 for the NACA 2412). This dip in the drag curve is frequently called the *drag bucket*; all the 6-series airfoils exhibit a drag bucket. Clearly, in the NACA wind tunnel tests, the laminar-flow feature operated as planned and resulted in a 33% reduction in minimum drag coefficient. Because of this stunning improvement, many high-performance aircraft have utilized NACA 6-series airfoils. The first aircraft to use an NACA laminar-flow airfoil was the North American P-51 Mustang of World War II fame, shown in Fig. 1.25. [There is some controversy, due to lack of documentation, as to specifically which NACA laminar-flow section was used on the P-51. A later version, the P-51H, used a 6-series airfoil, but earlier versions apparently used an earlier, 4-series NACA laminar-flow airfoil. See the interesting paper by Lednicer and Gilchrist (Ref. 20) for more information; this paper describes a modern computational aerodynamic analysis of the P-51, and of course the authors needed the correct geometry of the airplane.] However, as described in Section 1.2.3, the laminar-flow airfoil, when manufactured in the factory and used in the field, was contaminated with surface roughness (in comparison to the NACA’s jewellike wind tunnel models), and the expected benefit from laminar flow was not totally realized in practice. However, almost as a fluke, the NACA 6-series airfoils had relatively large critical Mach numbers compared to the earlier NACA airfoil families, and it is for this reason that the 6-series airfoils were used on many high-speed jet aircraft after World War II.

The numbering system for the NACA five-digit and 6-series airfoils involves in part the notion of the *design lift coefficient*. When applied in this context, the design lift coefficient for an airfoil is defined as follows: Imagine the airfoil replaced solely by its mean camber line, as sketched in Fig. 2.19. (This is the model used in the classic thin airfoil theory, such as described in Ref. 16.) There is only one angle of attack at which the local flow direction at the leading edge will be tangent to the camber line at that point; such a case is sketched in Fig. 2.19a. The theoretical lift coefficient for the camber line at this angle of attack is, by definition, the *ideal or design lift coefficient*. This definition was coined by Theodore Theodorsen, a well-known NACA theoretical aerodynamicist, in 1931. For any other angle of attack, the inviscid potential flow will have to curl around the leading edge, such as shown in Fig. 2.19b. Potential flow theory shows that when the flow passes over a sharp, convex corner, the velocity becomes infinite. There is only one angle of attack at which an infinite velocity is avoided at the leading edge, namely, that corresponding to the case shown in Fig. 2.19a. The lift coefficient for this case is, by definition, the design lift coefficient which is referenced in the NACA airfoil nomenclature.