402

PART 3 • Airplane Design

Ref. 25. For our purposes, we will deal only with the simple cruise mission profile sketched in Fig. 8.2.

The mission profile is a useful bookkeeping tool to help us estimate fuel weight. Each segment of the mission profile is associated with a *weight fraction*, defined as the airplane weight at the end of the segment divided by the weight at the beginning of the segment.

$$
\text{Mission segment weight fraction} = \frac{W_i}{W_{i-1}}
$$

For example, the cruise weight fraction is $W_3/W_2$, where $W_3$ is the airplane weight at the end of the cruise and $W_2$ is the weight at the beginning of cruise. The fuel weight ratio $W_f/W_0$, can be obtained from the product of the mission segment weight fractions as follows. Using the mission profile in Fig. 8.2, the ratio of the airplane weight at the end of the mission to the initial gross weight is $W_5/W_0$. In turn,

$$
\frac{W_5}{W_0} = \frac{W_1}{W_0}\frac{W_2}{W_1}\frac{W_3}{W_2}\frac{W_4}{W_3}\frac{W_5}{W_4}
$$

[8.6]

The right side of Eq. (8.6) is simply the product of the individual mission segment weight fractions. Also, keep in mind that for the simple cruise mission shown in Fig. 8.2, the change in weight during each segment is due to the consumption of fuel. If, at the end of the flight, the fuel tanks were completely empty, then

$$
W_f = W_0 - W_5
$$

or

$$
\frac{W_f}{W_0} = 1 - \frac{W_5}{W_0}
$$

[8.7]

However, at the end of the mission, the fuel tanks are not completely empty—by design. There should be some fuel left in reserve at the end of the mission in case weather conditions or traffic problems require that the pilot of the airplane divert to another airport, or spend a longer-than-normal time in a holding pattern. Also, the geometric design of the fuel tanks and the fuel system leads to some trapped fuel that is unavailable at the end of the flight. Typically, a 6% allowance is made for reserve and trapped fuel. Modifying Eq. (8.7) for this allowance, we have

$$
\frac{W_f}{W_0} = 1.06\left(1 - \frac{W_5}{W_0}\right)
$$

[8.8]

Hence, the sequence for the calculation of $W_f/W_0$ that appears in the denominator of Eq. (8.4) is as follows:

1. Calculate each individual mission segment weight fraction $W_1/W_0$, $W_2/W_1$, etc., that appears in Eq. (8.6).
2. Calculate $W_5/W_0$ from Eq. (8.6).
3. Calculate $W_f/W_0$ from Eq. (8.8).

Let us proceed to make this calculation for our business transport airplane.