# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

449

In Fig. 8.27, a few additional features are shown. A wing dihedral of $5^\circ$ is shown; this is based on previous general aviation airplane designs where the dihedral angle is on the order of $5^\circ$ to $7^\circ$ (Ref. 25). The ailerons, flaps, elevator, and rudder are shown, with a width equal to 30% of the local chord, a typical width. A more detailed design and sizing of the control surfaces are performed during later iterations of the configuration layout, and are based on a control analysis that has not been discussed in this book; see Ref. 3 for an introductory discussion of stability and control. (In our effort to present the *philosophy* of airplane design in this book, a detailed analysis of control is beyond our scope.) The tentative position of windows and doors is also shown in Fig. 8.27. The main landing gear is placed 14.6 ft apart so that it will retract into the wing without interfering with the space for the fuel tank; the fuel tank (see Fig. 8.16) and the retracted landing gear are shown in Fig. 8.27 as dashed lines in the plan view. One of the functions of the configuration layout is to see whether things fit internally in the airplane.

We have now completed pivot point 4 in Fig. 7.3. Let us move on to pivot point 5—a better weight estimate.

## 8.7 A BETTER WEIGHT ESTIMATE

In Section 8.3 we made a first estimate of the gross takeoff weight $W_0$ on the basis of historical data from previous airplanes. We had no other choice because at that stage we did not know the size and shape of our airplane design. However, with Fig. 8.27 we now have a configuration layout with which we can attempt a component weight buildup—estimating the weight of the various parts of the airplane and adding them to obtain the total empty weight.

Weight estimation in airplane design is critical. In most airplane companies, this job is carried out by specialized weight engineers, who draw from many disciplines such as structures, mechanical design, and statistics. Moreover, each company has its own established procedures and detailed formulas for estimating weights. It is well beyond the scope of this book to describe such detailed procedures. However, we will carry out a crude weight buildup that is more detailed than the weight estimation made in Section 8.3. This will serve to illustrate the philosophy of pivot point 5 in Fig. 7.3, and it will also give us a better weight estimate with which to finish our first design iteration.

Raymer (Ref. 25) gives an approximate weight buildup for a general aviation airplane as follows:

Wing weight $= 2.5S_{\text{exposed wing planform}}$ \hfill [8.83a]

Horizontal tail weight $= 2.0S_{\text{exposed horiz tail planform}}$ \hfill [8.83b]

Vertical tail weight $= 2.0S_{\text{exposed vert tail planform}}$ \hfill [8.83c]

Fuselage weight $= 1.4S_{\text{wetted area}}$ \hfill [8.83d]

Landing gear weight $= 0.057W_0$ \hfill [8.83e]

Installed engine weight $= 1.4(\text{Engine weight})$ \hfill [8.83f]

All else empty $= 0.1W_0$ \hfill [8.83g]