142

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

7. The drag polar, a plot of $C_L$ versus $C_D$ (or vice versa), contains almost all the necessary aerodynamics for an airplane performance analysis, and hence for a preliminary design of an airplane.

Look over the above list again. If the important details associated with each item do not readily come to mind, return to the pertinent section and refresh your memory. It is important that you have a comfortable feel for the applied aerodynamics discussed here. When you are ready, proceed to the next chapter, where we will examine some of the applied aspects of propulsion necessary for our subsequent airplane performance and design analyses.

# PROBLEMS

## 2.1

We wish to design a wind tunnel test to accurately measure the lift and drag coefficients that pertain to the Boeing 777 in actual flight at Mach 0.84 at an altitude of 35,000 ft. The wingspan of the Boeing 777 is 199.9 ft. However, to fit in the wind tunnel test section, the wingspan of the wind tunnel model of the Boeing 777 is 6 ft. The pressure of the airstream in the test section of the wind tunnel is 1 atm. Calculate the necessary values of the airstream velocity, temperature, and density in the test section. Assume that the viscosity coefficient varies as the square root of the temperature. *Note:* The answer to this problem leads to an absurdity. Discuss the nature of this absurdity in relation to the real world of wind tunnel testing.

## 2.2

Consider an NACA 2412 airfoil (data given in Fig. 2.6) with chord of 1.5 m at an angle of attack of $4^\circ$. For a free-stream velocity of 30 m/s at standard sea-level conditions, calculate the lift and drag per unit span. *Note:* The viscosity coefficient at standard sea-level conditions is $1.7894 \times 10^{-5}\,\mathrm{kg/(m \cdot s)}$.

## 2.3

For the airfoil and conditions in Problem 2.2, calculate the lift-to-drag ratio. Comment on its magnitude.

## 2.4

For the NACA 2412 airfoil, the data in Fig. 2.6a show that, at $\alpha = 6^\circ$, $c_l = 0.85$ and $c_{m_{c/4}} = -0.037$. In Example 2.4, the location of the aerodynamic center is calculated as $x_{a.c.}/c = -0.0053$, where $x_{a.c.}$ is measured relative to the quarter-chord point. From this information, calculate the value of the moment coefficient about the aerodynamic center, and check your result with the measured data in Fig. 2.6b.

## 2.5

Consider a finite wing of aspect ratio 4 with an NACA 2412 airfoil; the angle of attack is $5^\circ$. Calculate (a) the lift coefficient at low speeds (incompressible flow) using the results of Prandtl's lifting line theory, and (b) the lift coefficient for $M_\infty = 0.7$. Assume that the span efficiency factor for lift is $e_1 = 0.90$.

## 2.6

Using Helmbold's relation for low-aspect-ratio wings, calculate the lift coefficient of a finite wing of aspect ratio 1.5 with an NACA 2412 airfoil section. The wing is at an angle of attack of $5^\circ$. Compare this result with that obtained from Prandtl's lifting