# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

**Solution**

Consider the quarter-chord point. The moment about the quarter-chord point is given by the lift acting through the center of pressure, with the moment arm $0.3c - 0.25c = 0.05c$. This moment is

$$
M_{c/4} = -(0.05c)(200) = -10c = -10(5) = -50 \text{ ft-lb per unit span}
$$

*Note:* Moments which cause a pitch-down motion (a decrease in angle of attack) are, by convention, negative. For the case above, the moment about the quarter-chord point causes a pitch-down action; hence it is a negative moment. The direction of this negative moment is the opposite direction from the arrow shown in Fig. 2.5c; that is, the moment calculated here is in the counterclockwise direction.

The equivalent force and moment system is shown in Fig. 2.5c, where the lift of 200 lb acts through the quarter-chord point, and a moment equal to $-50$ ft-lb exists about the quarter-chord point.

Consider the leading edge point. The moment about the leading edge point is given by the lift acting through the center of pressure, with the moment arm $0.3c$. This moment is

$$
M_{LE} = -(0.3)(200) = -60c = -60(5) = -300 \text{ ft-lb per unit span}
$$

The equivalent force and moment system is shown in Fig. 2.5d, where the lift of 200 lb acts through the leading edge point and a moment equal to $-300$ ft-lb exists about the leading edge point.

## 2.4 AERODYNAMIC COEFFICIENTS

The aerodynamic characteristics of a body are more fundamentally described by the force and moment *coefficients* than by the actual forces and moments themselves. Let us explain why.

Intuition, if nothing else, tells us that the aerodynamic force on a body depends on the velocity of the body through the air $V_\infty$, the density of the ambient air $\rho_\infty$, the size of the body, which we will denote by an appropriate reference area $S$, and the orientation of the body relative to the free-stream direction, for example, the angle of attack $\alpha$. (Clearly, if we change the velocity, the aerodynamic force should change. Also, the force on a body moving at 100 feet per second (ft/s) through air is going to be smaller than the force on the same body moving at 100 ft/s through water, which is nearly a thousand times denser than air. Also, the aerodynamic force on a sphere of 1-inch (1-in) diameter is going to be smaller than that for a sphere of 1-ft diameter, everything else being equal. Finally, the force on a wing will clearly depend on how much the wing is inclined to the flow. All these are simply commonsense items.) Moreover, since friction accounts for part of the aerodynamic force, the force should depend on the ambient coefficient of viscosity $\mu_\infty$. Not quite so intuitive, but important nonetheless, is the compressibility of the medium through which the body moves. A measure of the compressibility of a fluid is the speed of sound in the fluid $a_\infty$; the higher the compressibility, the lower the speed of sound. Hence, we can