# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

greater than 1, invert it, and use the right side of the charts, where the abscissa is $(\operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE})/\beta$.

2. Pick the chart corresponding to the taper ratio $\lambda$ of the given wing. If $\lambda$ is in between the values shown in the charts, interpolation between charts will be necessary.

3. Calculate $AR \operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE}$ for the given wing. This is a parameter in the charts. Find the curve in the chart corresponding to the value of this parameter. Most likely, interpolation between two curves will be needed.

4. Read the corresponding value from the ordinate; this value will correspond to $\operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE}(C_{N_\alpha})$ if the left side of the chart is being used, and it will correspond to $\beta C_{N_\alpha}$ if the right side is used.

5. Extract $C_{N_\alpha}$ dividing the left ordinate by $\operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE}$, or by dividing the right ordinate by $\beta$, as the case may be.

6. We assume that the supersonic swept wing is thin, to minimize wave edge. Hence, to calculate lift, assume a flat surface wing, where $L = 0$ at $a = 0^\circ$. Recalling our assumption that $C_L \approx C_N$, calculate $C_L$ from

$$
C_L = C_{N_\alpha}\alpha \qquad (\alpha \text{ in radians})
$$

---

**Consider** a swept wing with a taper ratio of 0.5, leading edge sweep angle of $45^\circ$, and an aspect ratio of 3. Calculate the lift coefficient at Mach 2 at an angle of attack of $2^\circ$.  **Example 2.11**

## Solution

For taper ratio $\lambda$ equal to 0.5, use chart (e) in Fig. 2.31.

$$
\beta = \sqrt{M_\infty^2 - 1} = \sqrt{2^2 - 1} = 1.732
$$

$$
\operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE} = \operatorname{Tan}45^\circ = 1
$$

Since $\beta > \operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE}$, we will use the right side of chart (e).

$$
\frac{\operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE}}{\beta} = \frac{1}{1.732} = 0.577
$$

Also, the parameter $AR\operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE} = (3)(1) = 3$. In chart (e), find the curve corresponding to $AR\operatorname{Tan}\Lambda_{LE} = 3$. The point on this curve corresponding to the abscissa of 0.577 has the ordinate $\beta(C_{N_\alpha}) = 4$. Hence,

$$
C_{N_\alpha} = \frac{4}{\beta} = \frac{4}{1.732} = 2.31 \text{ per radian}
$$

Since $\alpha = 2^\circ = 0.0349 \text{ rad},$

$$
C_L = C_{N_\alpha}\alpha = (2.31)(0.0349) = 0.0806
$$

To go further with this calculation, assume the wing area is 3,900 ft$^2$, which is about that for the Concorde supersonic transport. Assume Mach 2 flight at a standard altitude of 50,000 ft, where $\rho_\infty = 243.6 \times 10^{-4}$ lb/ft$^2$. Let us calculate the lift generated by the wing for an angle of attack of $2^\circ$. From Eq. (2.23),