# CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar

following result. For the give body *shape*, we have

$$
C_L = f_1(\alpha,\ \mathrm{Re},\ M_\infty)
\qquad [2.9a]
$$

$$
C_D = f_2(\alpha,\ \mathrm{Re},\ M_\infty)
\qquad [2.9b]
$$

$$
C_M = f_3(\alpha,\ \mathrm{Re},\ M_\infty)
\qquad [2.9c]
$$

[See chapter 5 of Ref. 3 and chapter 1 of Ref. 16 for a discussion of dimensional analysis and a derivation of Eqs. (2.9a) to (2.9c).] These results from dimensional analysis greatly simplify things for us. For example, let us once again go through our thought experiment in which we want to find out *how* lift on a given body varies. However, this time, in light of the results from Eq. (2.9a), we use the *lift coefficient*, not the lift itself, as the primary item. We could run a series of wind tunnel tests in which we obtain the lift coefficient as a function of $\alpha$, keeping Re and $M_\infty$ constant. In so doing, we would obtain a stack of wind tunnel data. Then we could run a second series of tests where Re is varied, keeping $\alpha$ and $M_\infty$ constant. This would give us a second stack of wind tunnel data. Finally, we could run a third series of wind tunnel tests in which $M_\infty$ is varied, keeping $\alpha$ and Re constant. This would give us a third stack of data. With only these three stacks of data, we could find out how $C_L$ varies. This is a tremendous savings in time and money over our previous thought experiment, in which we generated six stacks of data to find out how $L$ varies.

The above thought experiment is only one aspect of the value of $C_L$, $C_D$, and $C_M$. They have a more fundamental value, as follows. Take Eq. (2.9a), for example. This relationship shows that lift coefficient is a function of the angle of attack, Reynolds number, and Mach number. Imagine that we have a given body at a given angle of attack in a given flow, where $\rho_\infty$, $V_\infty$, $\mu_\infty$, and $a_\infty$ are certain values. Let us call this the “green” flow. Now, consider another body of the same geometric shape (but not the same size) in another flow where $\rho_\infty$, $V_\infty$, $\mu_\infty$, and $a_\infty$ are all different; let us call this flow the “red” flow.

Dimensional analysis, from Eq. (2.9a), tells us that even though the green flow and the red flow are two different flows, *if* the Reynolds number and the Mach number are the *same* for these two different flows, then the *lift coefficient* will be the same for the two geometrically similar bodies at the same angle of attack. If this is the case, then the two flows, the green flow and the red flow, are called *dynamically similar flows*. This is powerful stuff! The essence of practical wind tunnel testing is built on the concept of dynamically similar flows. Say we want to obtain the lift, drag, and moment coefficients for the Boeing 747 flying at an altitude of 30,000 ft with a Mach number of 0.8. If we place a small-scale model of the Boeing 747 in a wind tunnel at the same angle of attack as the real airplane in flight, and if the flow conditions in the test section of the wind tunnel are such that the Reynolds number and Mach number are the same as for the real airplane in actual flight, then the lift, drag, and moment coefficients measured in the wind tunnel will be exactly the same values as those for the full-scale airplane in free flight. This principle has been a driving force in the design of wind tunnels. The ideal wind tunnel is one in which the proper Reynolds and Mach numbers corresponding to actual flight are simulated. This is frequently very difficult to achieve; hence most wind tunnel designs focus on