# CHAPTER 9 • Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

489

default deals with a jet-propelled airplane. However, the design *philosophy* and *general methodology* for the design of jet airplanes are the same as described in Chapter 7, which is to say, generic in nature. We have explicitly illustrated this design philosophy in great detail in Chapter 8 for a propeller-driven airplane. For the design of a jet airplane, the intellectual approach is essentially the same, only some of the details are different. Therefore, there appears to be little to gain (except possibly a lot of repetition and boredom on the part of the reader) to illustrate the design of a jet airplane by following the same detailed path laid out in Chapter 8 for a propeller-driven airplane. Instead, in this chapter we will discuss the design of several pioneering jet airplanes; these discussions will essentially be case histories, but with a twist. The twist will be specific discussions, as appropriate, of some technical details of jet airplane design that are different from those covered in Chapter 8 for a propeller-driven airplane. In this way we aim to do justice to this chapter, giving you a good idea of how to design a jet-propelled airplane, but without repeating the type of detailed calculations illustrated in Chapter 8.

## 9.2 THE DESIGN OF SUBSONIC/TRANSONIC JET-PROPELLED AIRPLANES: A CASE STUDY OF THE BOEING 707 AND 727

The Boeing 707 is shown in Fig. 1.33; return to this figure and review the related short discussion of the 707 in Chapter 1. Examining Fig. 1.33, we see a sleek, swept-wing commercial jet transport that first entered airline service in 1958. As is usual with many airplane designs, the Boeing 707 was evolutionary; it was derived from Boeing’s experience with the earlier designs for the B-47 and B-52 jet bombers. However, the B-47 itself was revolutionary—the first successful swept-wing jet bomber, with the engines housed in pods mounted underneath the wing. So the Boeing 707 was a derivative from an earlier airplane that was itself a revolutionary step. Furthermore, the 707 became the first successful civil jet airliner, and in that sense it was revolutionary because it dramatically changed airliner travel.

In this section we will explore the design philosophy of the Boeing 707, as well as that of the next Boeing jet transport, the trimotor 727. However, to appreciate this design philosophy, we should start at the beginning, with the revolutionary design of the B-47 jet bomber.

### 9.2.1 Design of the B-47—A Precursor to the 707

As discussed in Chapter 7 and shown in Fig. 7.3, the first pivot point in the design of a new airplane is a statement of the requirements. For the B-47, this first took the form of a study contract awarded to five aircraft companies in late 1943 by the Bombardment Branch of the U.S. Army Air Forces at Wright Field in Dayton, Ohio. The purpose of this contract was to have each company design a jet-propelled bomber, with the possibility that the Army would buy a prototype from each manufacturer.