58

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

readily state the following relations for lift, drag, and moments of a body of *given shape*:

$$
L = L(\rho_\infty, V_\infty, S, \alpha, \mu_\infty, a_\infty)
$$
[2.2a]

$$
D = D(\rho_\infty, V_\infty, S, \alpha, \mu_\infty, a_\infty)
$$
[2.2b]

$$
M = M(\rho_\infty, V_\infty, S, \alpha, \mu_\infty, a_\infty)
$$
[2.2c]

With the above in mind, let us go through the following thought experiment. Assume we want to find out *how* the lift on a given body varies with the parameters given in Eq. (2.2a). We could first run a series of wind tunnel tests in which the velocity is varied and everything else is kept the same. From this, we would obtain a stack of wind tunnel data from which we could extract how $L$ varies with $V_\infty$. Then we could run a second series of wind tunnel tests in which the density is changed and everything else is kept the same. From this we would obtain a second stack of wind tunnel data from which we could correlate $L$ with $\rho_\infty$. We could continue to run wind tunnel tests, varying in turn each one of the other parameters on the right-hand side of Eq. (2.2a), and obtain more stacks of wind tunnel data. When finished, we would have six separate stacks of wind tunnel data to correlate in order to find out *how* the lift varies for the given aerodynamic shape. This could be very time-consuming, and moreover, the large amount of wind tunnel time could be quite costly. However, there is a better way. Let us define the lift, drag, and moment *coefficients* for a given body, denoted by $C_L$, $C_D$, and $C_M$, respectively, as follows:

$$
C_L = \frac{L}{q_\infty S}
$$
[2.3]

$$
C_D = \frac{D}{q_\infty S}
$$
[2.4]

$$
C_M = \frac{M}{q_\infty Sc}
$$
[2.5]

where $q_\infty$ is the *dynamic pressure*, defined as

$$
q_\infty = \frac{1}{2}\rho V_\infty^2
$$
[2.6]

and $c$ is a characteristic length of a body (for an airfoil, the usual choice for $c$ is the chord length). Let us define the following similarity parameters:

Reynolds number (based on chord length): $Re = \frac{\rho_\infty V_\infty c}{\mu_\infty}$ [2.7]

Mach number: $M_\infty = \frac{V_\infty}{a_\infty}$ [2.8]

The method of dimensional analysis—a very powerful and elegant approach used to identify governing nondimensional parameters in a physical problem—leads to the