392

PART 3 • Airplane Design

drawn in Section 7.3.4 is judged as to whether it can meet all the original specifications set forth in Section 7.3.1. This is obviously a critical point in the conceptual design process. It is unlikely that the configuration, as first obtained, will indeed meet *all* the specifications; it may exceed some, but not measure up to others. At this stage, the creative judgment of the designer is particularly important. An iterative process is initiated wherein the configuration is modified, with the expectation of coming closer to meeting the requirements. The design process returns to step 3 in Fig. 7.3 and readjusts the critical performance parameters in directions that will improve performance. These readjustments in turn readjust the configuration in step 4 and the better weight estimate in step 5. The new (hopefully improved) performance is assessed in step 6. The iteration is repeated until the resulting airplane design meets the requirements.

At this stage, some mature judgment on the part of the design team is critical, because the iterative process might not lead to a design that meets all the requirements. This may be because some of the specifications are unrealistic, or that the existing technology is not sufficiently advanced, or that costs are estimated to be prohibitive, or for a host of other reasons. As a result, in collaboration with the customer, some specifications may be relaxed in order to achieve other requirements that take higher priority. For example, if high speed is critical, but the high wing loading that allows this high speed increases the takeoff and landing distances beyond the original specifications, then the takeoff and landing requirements might be relaxed.

## 7.3.7 Optimization

When the design team is satisfied that the iterative process between steps 3 and 6 in Fig. 7.3 has produced a viable airplane, the next question is: Is it the *best* design? This leads to an optimization analysis, which is the seventh and final pivot point listed in Fig. 7.3. The optimization may be carried out by a systematic variation of different parameters, such as $T/W$ and $W/S$, producing a large number of different airplanes via steps 3 to 6, and plotting the performance of all these airplanes on graphs which provide a sizing matrix or a carpet plot from which the optimum design can be found. In recent years, the general field of optimization has grown into a discipline of its own. Research in optimization theory had led to more mathematical sophistication which is finding its way into the design process. It is likely that airplane designers in the early twenty-first century will have available to them optimized design programs which may revolutionize the overall design process.

## 7.3.8 Constraint Diagram

Some of the intellectual activity described in Sections 7.3.6 and 7.3.7 can be aided by constructing a constraint diagram, which identifies the allowable *solution space* for the airplane design, subject to various constraints imposed by the initial requirements and the laws of physics. We have seen that the thrust-to-weight ratio and wing loading are two of the most important design parameters. A constraint diagram consists of