116

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

*drag* effect. It occurs in two ways. First, and primarily, the strong adverse pressure gradient across the shock causes the boundary layer to separate from the surface—this creates pressure drag due to flow separation. Second, even if the boundary layer did not separate, there is a loss of total pressure across the shock which ultimately would cause a net static pressure imbalance in the drag direction—also a pressure drag. The net effect of these combined phenomena is the large drag rise near Mach 1 shown in Fig. 2.11.

Although Fig. 2.11 is for an airfoil, the same qualitative effect occurs for complete airplanes. For example, Fig. 2.42 shows the transonic drag rise for the Northrop T-38 jet trainer. Here, the zero-lift drag coefficient $C_{D,0}$ is plotted versus free-stream Mach number; note that $C_{D,0}$ experiences about a factor-of-3 increase in the transonic regime.

No closed-form analytical formulas exist to predict the transonic drag rise. Even computational fluid dynamics, which has been applied to the computation of transonic flows for more than 25 years, does not always give the right answer, principally due to uncertainties in the calculation of the shock-induced separated flow. Jobe (Ref. 27) states: “The numerous authors in the field of numerical transonic aerodynamics have reached a consensus: Transonic drag predictions are currently unreliable by any method.” The burden of transonic drag prediction falls squarely on empirical data from wind tunnel tests and flight experiments. However, in spite of the difficulty of predicting the transonic drag rise, there are two principal design features that have been developed in the last half of the twentieth century which serve to reduce the drag rise itself, or to delay its effect: the *transonic area rule* and the *supercritical airfoil*. Let us briefly examine these features.

### Area Rule

We first mentioned the area rule in conjunction with the F-102 delta wing fighter shown in Fig. 1.31. The essence of the area rule is sketched in Figs. 2.43 and 2.44. In Fig. 2.43a, the top view of a non-area-ruled airplane is shown; here, the variation of the cross-sectional area with the longitudinal distance is not smooth, that is, it has some discontinuities in it, particularly where the cross-sectional area of the wing is added to that of the fuselage. Prior to the early 1950s, aircraft designers did not realize that the kinks in the cross-sectional area distribution caused a large transonic drag rise. However, in the mid-1950s, principally based on the highly intuitive experimental work of Richard Whitcomb, an aerodynamicist at NACA Langley Aeronautical Laboratory, it became evident that the cross-sectional area distribution for transonic and supersonic airplanes should be smooth—no kinks. This can be achieved in part by decreasing the cross-sectional area of the fuselage in the wing region to compensate for the cross-sectional area increase due to the wings. Such an area-ruled airplane is sketched in Fig. 2.43b. The area ruling causes the fuselage to have a “Coke bottle” shape. The effect of area ruling is to reduce the peak transonic drag rise, as sketched in Fig. 2.44. The actual drag data for the F-102 before and after area ruling are given in Fig. 2.45. The minimum drag coefficient is plotted versus the free-stream Mach number for (a) the original, non-area-ruled prototype (solid curve) and (b) the modified, area-ruled airplane (labeled *revised* in Fig. 2.45 and given by the dashed line). Note the decrease in peak drag coefficient for the