# ABOUT THE AUTHOR

John D. Anderson, Jr., was born in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, on October 1, 1937. He attended the University of Florida, graduating in 1959 with high honors and a Bachelor of Aeronautical Engineering Degree. From 1959 to 1962, he was a lieutenant and task scientist at the Aerospace Research Laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. From 1962 to 1966, he attended the Ohio State University under the National Science Foundation and NASA Fellowships, graduating with a Ph.D. in aeronautical and astronautical engineering. In 1966, he joined the U.S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory as Chief of the Hypersonic Group. In 1973, he became Chairman of the Department of Aerospace Engineering at the University of Maryland, and since 1980 has been professor of Aerospace Engineering at Maryland. In 1982, he was designated a Distinguished Scholar/Teacher by the University. During 1986-1987, while on sabbatical from the university, Dr. Anderson occupied the Charles Lindbergh chair at the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution. He continues with the Museum in a part-time appointment as special assistant for aerodynamics. In addition to his appointment in aerospace engineering, in 1993 he was elected to the faculty of the Committee on the History and Philosophy of Science at Maryland, and is an affiliate faculty member in the Department of History.

Dr. Anderson has published seven books: *Gasdynamic Lasers: An Introduction*, Academic Press (1976), *A History of Aerodynamics and Its Impact on Flying Machines*, Cambridge University Press (1997), and with McGraw-Hill, *Introduction to Flight*, 3d edition (1989), *Modern Compressible Flow*, 2d Edition (1990), *Fundamentals of Aerodynamics*, 2d edition (1991), *Hypersonic and High Temperature Gas Dynamics* (1989), and *Computational Fluid Dynamics: The Basics with Applications* (1995). He is the author of over 120 papers on radiative gasdynamics, re-entry aerothermodynamics, gas dynamic and chemical lasers, computational fluid dynamics, applied aerodynamics, hypersonic flow, and the history of aerodynamics. Dr. Anderson is in *Who's Who in America*, and is a Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA). He is also a Fellow of the Washington Academy of Sciences, and a member of Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Tau, Phi Kappa Phi, Phi Eta Sigma, The American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE), The Society for the History of Technology, and the History of Science Society. He has received the Lee Atwood Award for excellence in Aerospace Engineering Education from the AIAA and the ASEE, and the Pendray Award for Aerospace Literature from the AIAA.

vii