154

PART I • Preliminary Considerations

The *specific fuel consumption* is a technical figure of merit for an engine which reflects how efficiently the engine is burning fuel and converting it to power. For an internal combustion reciprocating engine, the specific fuel consumption $c$ is defined as

$$
c = \text{weight of fuel burned per unit power per unit time}
$$

or

$$
c = \frac{\text{weight of fuel consumed for given time increment}}{(\text{power output})(\text{time increment})} \qquad [3.10]
$$

In this book, we will always use consistent units in our calculations, either the English engineering system or the international system (SI). (See chapter 2 of Ref. 3 for a discussion of the significance of consistent units.) Hence, $c$ is expressed in terms of the units

$$
[c] = \frac{\mathrm{lb}}{(\mathrm{ft}\!\cdot\!\mathrm{lb}/\mathrm{s})\,(\mathrm{s})}
$$

or

$$
[c] = \frac{\mathrm{N}}{\mathrm{W}\!\cdot\!\mathrm{s}}
$$

However, over the years, conventional engineering practice has quoted the specific fuel consumption in the inconsistent units of pounds of fuel consumed per horsepower per hour; these are the units you will find in most specifications for internal combustion reciprocating engines. To emphasize this difference, we will denote the specific fuel consumption in these inconsistent units by the symbol SFC. Hence, by definition,

$$
[\mathrm{SFC}] = \frac{\mathrm{lb}}{\mathrm{hp}\!\cdot\!\mathrm{h}}
$$

Before making a calculation which involves specific fuel consumption, we always convert the inconsistent units of SFC to the consistent units of $c$.

## 3.3.1 Variations of Power and Specific Fuel Consumption with Velocity and Altitude

In Eq. (3.9), $P$ is the power that comes from the engine shaft; it is sometimes called *shaft power*. Consider the engine mounted on an airplane. As the airplane velocity $V_\infty$ is changed, the only variable affected in Eq. (3.9) is the pressure of the air entering the engine manifold, due to the stagnation of the airflow in the engine inlet. (Sometimes this is called a *ram effect*.) In effect, as $V_\infty$ increases, this “ram pressure” is increased; it is reflected as an increase in $p_e$ in Eq. (3.9), which in turn increases $P$ via Eq. (3.9). For the high-velocity propeller-driven fighter airplanes of World War II, this effect had some significance. However, today reciprocating engines are used only on low-speed general aviation aircraft, and the ram effect can be ignored. Hence, we assume in this book that

$$
P \text{ is reasonably constant with } V_\infty
$$