# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

is $\rho_\infty$. Hence, we can write from Eq. (5.34),

$$
\left[ V_{(L/D)_{\max}} \right]_{\text{sea level}} =
\left[ \frac{(\rho_\infty)_{30,000\ \text{ft}}}{(\rho_\infty)_{\text{sea level}}} \right]^{1/2}
\left[ V_{(L/D)_{\max}} \right]_{30,000\ \text{ft}}
$$

$$
=
\left( \frac{8.9068 \times 10^{-4}}{0.002377} \right)^{1/2}
(631.2)
=
\boxed{386.4\ \text{ft/s}}
$$

---

The rate of descent, sometimes called the *sink rate*, is the downward vertical velocity of the airplane $V_v$. It is, for unpowered flight, the analog of rate of climb for powered flight. As seen in the insert in Fig. 5.39,

$$
\text{Rate of descent} = V_v = V_\infty \sin \theta
\qquad \text{[5.128]}
$$

Rate of descent is a positive number in the downward direction. Multiplying Eq. (5.124) by $V_\infty$ and inserting Eq. (5.128), we have

$$
DV_\infty = WV_\infty \sin \theta = WV_v
$$

or

$$
V_v = \frac{DV_\infty}{W}
\qquad \text{[5.129]}
$$

By making the assumption of $\cos \theta = 1$, in Eq. (5.129), $DV_\infty$ is simply the power required for steady, level flight. Hence, the variation of $V_v$ with velocity is the same as the power required curve, divided by the weight. This variation is sketched in Fig. 5.42, with positive values of $V_v$ increasing along the downward vertical axis (just to emphasize that the sink rate $V_v$ is in the downward direction). Clearly, minimum sink rate occurs at the flight velocity for minimum power required. Hence the conditions for minimum sink rate are the same as those for $(P_R)_{\min}$, which from Eqs. (5.41) and (5.57) are

1. $\dfrac{C_L^{3/2}}{C_D}$ is maximum

2. $$(V_\infty)_{\min\ \text{sink rate}} = \left( \frac{2}{\rho_\infty} \sqrt{\frac{K}{3C_{D,0}} \frac{W}{S}} \right)^{1/2}$$

The hodograph diagram is sketched in Fig. 5.43 where a line from the origin tangent to the hodograph curve defines $\theta_{\min}$. This sketch is shown just to emphasize that the minimum sink rate does *not* correspond to the minimum glide angle. The flight velocity for the minimum sink rate (corresponding to maximum $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$) is less than that for minimum glide angle (corresponding to maximum $C_L/C_D$).

An analytical expression for the sink rate $V_v$ can be obtained as follows. From Eq. (5.123)

$$
W \cos \theta = L = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L
$$