358

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

Table 6.1

| Surface | $\mu_r$ (Typical Values) Brakes off | Brakes on |
|---|---:|---:|
| Dry concrete/asphalt | 0.03–0.05 | 0.3–0.5 |
| Wet concrete/asphalt | 0.05 | 0.15–0.3 |
| Icy concrete/asphalt | 0.02 | 0.06–0.10 |
| Hard turf | 0.05 | 0.4 |
| Firm dirt | 0.04 | 0.3 |
| Soft turf | 0.07 | 0.2 |
| Wet grass | 0.08 | 0.2 |

To return to the right-hand side of Eq. (6.71), the weight $W$ is usually considered to be constant, although it is slightly decreasing due to the fuel's being consumed during takeoff. The lift $L$ is given by

$$
L=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L
$$

[6.79]

In Eq. (6.79), the lift coefficient is that for the angle of attack of the airplane rolling along the ground. In turn, the angle of attack during ground roll is essentially a design feature of the airplane, determined by the built-in incidence angle of the wing chord line relative to the fuselage, and by the built-in orientation of the centerline of the airplane relative to the ground due to the different height of the main landing gear relative to that of the nose (or tail) wheel. The value of $C_L$ in Eq. (6.79) also depends on the extent to which the wing high-lift devices are employed during takeoff. Raymer (Ref. 25) states that $C_L$ for the ground roll is typically less than 0.1. Of course, during the rotation phase near the end of the ground roll (see Fig. 6.13), the value of $C_L$ will increase, and it is frequently limited by the amount of tail clearance. Hence, $C_L$ in Eq. (6.79) is primarily determined (and limited) by features of the geometric design configuration of the airplane rolling along the ground.

A detailed calculation of the ground roll can be made by numerically solving Eq. (6.71) for $V_\infty = V(t)$, where in this equation $T$, $D$, and $L$ are variables which take on their appropriate instantaneous values at each instant during the ground roll. For the numerical solution of Eq. (6.71), $T$ can be expressed by Eq. (6.72) for a reciprocating engine/propeller combination, Eq. (6.73) for a turbojet, or Eq. (6.74) for a turbofan. The drag is expressed by Eq. (6.75) where $C_D$ is given by Eq. (6.78). The lift is given by Eq. (6.79). From the numerical solution of Eq. (6.71), we obtain a tabulation of $V_\infty$ versus $t$, starting with $V_\infty = 0$ at $t = 0$ and ending when $V_\infty = V_{LO}$. The value of $V_{LO}$ is prescribed in advance; it is usually set equal to $1.1V_{mu}$, where $V_{mu}$ is the minimum unstick speed described earlier. Because of the limited tail clearance of many airplanes, the minimum unstick speed corresponds to a value of $C_L < (C_L)_{max}$, and hence $V_{mu} > V_{stall}$, as clearly shown in Fig. 6.13. As a result, the specified value of $V_{LO}$ is close to $1.1V_{stall}$. The value of $t$ that exists when $V_\infty$ reaches $V_{LO}$ is denoted by $t_{LO}$, the liftoff time. The ground roll $s_g$, can then be obtained from