344 PART 2 • Airplane Performance

damage the aircraft (e.g. point 5 in Fig. 6.7), and the pilot must make certain to avoid such a case.

---

### Example 6.3

For our Gulfstream-like aircraft, assume the positive limit load factor is 4.5. Calculate the airplane's corner velocity at sea level.

**Solution**

From previous examples, for this airplane $W/S = 76.84\ \mathrm{lb/ft^2}$ and $(C_L)_{\max} = 1.2$. Since $\rho_\infty = 0.002377\ \mathrm{slug/ft^3}$ at sea level, Eq. (6.54) yields

$$
V^* = \sqrt{\frac{2n_{\max}}{\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}}\frac{W}{S}}
= \sqrt{\frac{2(4.5)(76.84)}{(0.002377)(1.2)}}
= 492.4\ \mathrm{ft/s}
$$

---

## DESIGN CAMEO

For airplane design, the limit load factor depends on the type of aircraft. Some typical values for limit load factors are given below (Ref. 25).

| Aircraft Type | $n_{\mathrm{pos}}$ | $n_{\mathrm{neg}}$ |
|---|---:|---:|
| Normal general aviation | 2.5–3.8 | $-1$—$-1.5$ |
| Aerobatic general aviation | 6 | $-3$ |
| Civil transport | 3–4 | $-1$—$-2$ |
| Fighter | 6.5–9 | $-3$—$-6$ |

Note from the above table and Fig. 6.7 that the magnitudes of $n_{\mathrm{neg}}$ are smaller than those for $n_{\mathrm{pos}}$. This is a design decision which reflects that airplanes rarely fly under conditions of negative lift.

The values shown in Fig. 6.7, namely, $n_{\mathrm{pos}} = 7.5$ and $n_{\mathrm{neg}} = -3.0$, are for a typical military trainer aircraft.

Because most airplanes are constructed primarily from aluminum alloys, for which the ultimate allowable stress is about 50% greater than the yield stress, a factor of safety of 1.5 is generally used between the ultimate load factor and the limit load factor. Note in Fig. 6.7 that the positive ultimate load factor is $7.5 \times 1.5 = 11.25$, and the negative ultimate load factor is $-3.0 \times 1.5 = -4.5$.

## 6.6 ENERGY CONCEPTS: ACCELERATED RATE OF CLIMB

The discussion of rate of climb in Section 5.10 was limited to the equilibrium case, that is, no acceleration. Indeed, some of the analysis in Section 5.10 included the assumption that the steady-state climb angle $\theta$ was small enough that $\cos \theta \approx 1$. In