# CHAPTER 1 • The Evolution of the Airplane and Its Performance: A Short History

9

line inclined upward and backward, perpendicular to the plate. This resultant force is then resolved into components perpendicular and parallel to the relative wind, that is, the lift and drag, respectively. This silver disk, no larger than a U.S. quarter, is now in the collection of the British Science Museum in London. In this fashion, the concept of the modern configuration airplane was born. (More extensive discussions by the author of George Cayley’s contributions to aeronautics can be found in Refs. 3 and 4; definitive studies of his life and contributions are contained in Refs. 5 and 6.)

To key on Cayley’s seminal ideas, the nineteenth century was full of abortive attempts to actually build and fly fixed-wing, powered, human-carrying flying machines. Cayley himself built several full-size aircraft over the span of his long life (he died in 1857 at the age of 83), but was unsuccessful in achieving sustained flight. Some of the most important would-be inventors of the airplane—such as William Samuel Henson and John Stringfellow in England, Felix Du Temple in France, and Alexander Mozhaiski in Russia—are discussed in chapter 1 of Ref. 3; hence no further elaboration will be given here. They were all unsuccessful in achieving sustained flight. In regard to the nature of airplane performance and design, we note that these enthusiastic but unsuccessful inventors were obsessed with horsepower (or thrust). They were mainly concerned with equipping their aircraft with engines powerful enough to accelerate the machine to a velocity high enough that the aerodynamic lift of the wings would become large enough to raise the machine off the ground and into the air. Unfortunately, they all suffered from the same circular argument—the more powerful the engine, the heavier it weighs; the heavier the machine is, the faster it must move to produce enough lift to get off the ground; the faster the machine must move, the more powerful (and hence heavier) the engine must be—which is where we entered this circular argument. A way out of this quandary is to develop engines with more power *without* an increase in engine weight, or more precisely, to design engines with larger horsepower-to-weight ratios. Later, we will find this ratio, or more importantly the thrust-to-weight ratio $T/W$ for the entire aircraft, to be a critical parameter in airplane performance and design. In the nineteenth century, inventors of flying machines functioned mainly on the basis of intuition, with little quantitative analysis to guide them. They knew that, to accelerate the aircraft, thrust had to be greater than the drag; that is, $T - D$ had to be a positive number. And the larger the thrust and the smaller the drag, the better things were. In essence, most of the nineteenth-century flying machine inventors were obsessed with *brute force*—given enough thrust (or horsepower) from the engine, the airplane could be wrestled into the air. The aviation historians call such people “chauffeurs.” They were so busy trying to get the flying machine off the ground that they paid little attention to how the machine would be controlled once it got into the air—their idea was that somehow the machine could be “chauffeured” in the air much as a carriage driven on the ground. This philosophy led to failure in all such cases.

Perhaps the epitome of the chauffeurs was Sir Hiram Maxim, a U.S. expatriate from Texas living in England. To the general world, Maxim is known as the inventor of the first fully automatic machine gun. Developed by Maxim in England around 1884, the guns were manufactured by Vickers in England and were used by every major army around the globe. The wealth thus derived allowed Maxim to explore the