# Specific Excess Power

How does an airplane change its energy state; for example, in Fig. 6.8, how could airplanes A and B increase their energy heights to equal that of D? The answer to this question has to do with specific excess power, defined below.

Examine again Fig. 4.2, which illustrates an airplane in motion in the vertical plane, and Fig. 4.4, which gives the forces in the vertical plane. The equation of motion along the flight path is given by Eq. (4.5) which, assuming zero bank angle $(\phi = 0)$ and the thrust aligned in the direction of $V_\infty$ $(\epsilon = 0)$, reduces to

$$
T - D - W \sin \theta = m \frac{dV_\infty}{dt}
$$

[6.57]

Since $m = W/g$, Eq. (6.57) can be written as

$$
T - D = W \left( \sin \theta + \frac{1}{g}\frac{dV_\infty}{dt} \right)
$$

Multiplying by $V_\infty/W$, we obtain

$$
\frac{TV_\infty - DV_\infty}{W} = V_\infty \sin \theta + \frac{V_\infty}{g}\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}
$$

[6.58]

Recall from Eq. (5.79) that

$$
TV_\infty - DV_\infty = \text{excess power}
$$

[5.79]

We define *specific excess power*, denoted by $P_s$, as the excess power per unit weight. From Eq. (5.79),

$$
P_s = \frac{\text{excess power}}{W} = \frac{TV_\infty - DV_\infty}{W}
$$

[6.59]

Also, recall from Eq. (5.77) that the rate of climb $R/C$ is expressed by

$$
R/C = V_\infty \sin \theta
$$

[5.77]

Since rate of climb is simply the time rate of change of altitude $R/C = dh/dt$, Eq. (5.77) can be written as

$$
V_\infty \sin \theta = \frac{dh}{dt}
$$

[6.60]

Substituting Eqs. (6.59) and (6.60) into Eq. (6.58), we have

$$
P_s = \frac{dh}{dt} + \frac{V_\infty}{g}\frac{dV_\infty}{dt}
$$

[6.61]

Equation (6.61) shows that an airplane with excess power can use this excess for rate of climb $(dh/dt)$ or to accelerate along its flight path $(dV_\infty/dt)$ or for a combination of both. Equation (6.61) helps to put our discussion in Section 5.10 in perspective. In Section 5.10 we assumed no acceleration, that is, $dV_\infty/dt = 0$. For this case, Eq. (6.61) becomes

$$
P_s = \frac{dh}{dt}
$$

[6.62]