500

PART 3 • Airplane Design

Idlewild in New York—with full loads of passengers. Although these Comets crossed the Atlantic Ocean in both directions that day, the ultimate success belonged to the Boeing 707. Carrying 100 more passengers at 100 mi/h faster, the 707 outperformed the Comet 4, and it soon became the jet airliner of choice for airlines around the world. Also, the Air Force ordered a tanker version of the 707. Designated the KC-135, it became the natural airplane for air-to-air refueling of other jet airplanes. The first KC-135 was delivered to the Air Force in 1957.

The 707, in its earlier and later models, was a long-range airplane seating up to 189 passengers. It was a “hot” airplane in the sense that it had a high landing speed of 158 mi/h; it required a takeoff field length of 8,600 ft and a landing field length of 5,980 ft. Hence, only large airports could accept the 707; the vast number of regional airports with shorter runways were disenfranchised to jet transport aviation at the time. Recognizing this as a problem and an opportunity, in 1957 Boeing began the study of a smaller jet transport that could operate out of fields of 5,000 to 6,000 ft in length. Thus began the idea of the intermediate-range 727, the next Boeing success story.

## 9.2.3 Design of the Boeing 727 Jet Transport

As early as 1950, Boeing management had decided that the future of commercial transports lay in jets. With the subsequent success of the 707 jet airliner, Boeing embarked on a new jet transport design—the 727. This new airplane was part evolutionary and part revolutionary, as we shall see. The requirements for the 727 did not originate with the airlines. Rather, Boeing was astute enough to see a future need for a jet transport with the following characteristics:

1. Short field capacity.
2. Maximum passenger appeal.
3. Low direct operating cost, which is enhanced by minimizing the time the airplane stays on the ground, maximizing the climb and descent rates, and having good reliability.
4. Low community noise.
5. All-weather operation.
6. Operational flexibility and self-sufficiency.
7. High profit potential.

The board of directors insisted that, before embarking on the project, the company have orders for such an airplane from at least two major airlines. So Boeing went to the airlines with a concept for a short- to medium-range airplane; ultimately United Airlines and Eastern Airlines showed some interest, albeit conflicting. United wanted a four-engine airplane because of its high-altitude operation at Denver; four engines would provide more safety in an engine-out situation. However, Eastern Airlines wanted a twin-engine airplane because it was more economical to operate. Boeing finally took the middle ground and chose to design a three-engine airplane; its studies