be achievable because the tail may drag the ground. (Ground clearance for the tail after rotation is an important design feature for the airplane, imposed by takeoff considerations.)

6. If the rotation of the airplane is limited by ground clearance for the tail, the airplane must continue to accelerate while rolling along the ground after rotation is achieved, until a higher speed is reached where indeed the lift becomes larger than the weight. This speed is called the *minimum unstick speed*, denoted by $V_{\mathrm{mu}}$ in Fig. 6.13. For the definition of $V_{\mathrm{mu}}$, it is assumed that the angle of attack achieved during rotation is the maximum allowable by the tail clearance.

7. However, for increased safety, the angle of attack after rotation is slightly less than the maximum allowable by tail clearance, and the airplane continues to accelerate to a slightly higher velocity, called the *liftoff speed*, denoted by $V_{\mathrm{LO}}$ in Fig. 6.13. This is the point at which the airplane actually lifts off the ground. The total distance covered along the ground to this point is the ground roll $s_g$.

The relative values of the various velocities discussed above, and noted on Fig. 6.13, are all sandwiched between the value of $V_{\mathrm{stall}}$ and that for $V_{\mathrm{LO}}$, where usually $V_{\mathrm{LO}} \approx 1.1V_{\mathrm{stall}}$. A nice discussion of the relative values of the velocities noted in Fig. 6.13 is contained in Ref. 41, which should be consulted for more details.

Related to the above discussion is the concept of *balanced field length*, defined as follows. The decision speed $V_1$ was defined earlier as the minimum velocity at which the pilot can successfully continue the takeoff even though an engine failure would occur at that point. What does it mean that the pilot “can successfully continue the takeoff” in such an event? The answer is that when the airplane reaches $V_1$, if an engine fails at that point, then the additional distance required to clear the obstacle at the end of takeoff is exactly the same distance as required to bring the airplane to a stop on the ground. If we let $A$ be the distance traveled by the airplane along the ground from the original starting point (point 0 in Fig. 6.13) to the point where $V_1$ is reached, and we let $B$ be the additional distance traveled with an engine failure (the same distance to clear an obstacle or to brake to a stop), then the balanced field length is by definition the *total distance* $A + B$.

## 6.7.1 Calculation of Ground Roll

The forces acting on the airplane during takeoff are shown in Fig. 6.14. In addition to the familiar forces of thrust, weight, lift, and drag, there is a rolling resistance $R$, caused by friction between the tires and the ground. This resistance force is given by

$$
R = \mu_r (W - L)
\qquad [6.70]
$$

where $\mu_r$ is the coefficient of rolling friction and $W - L$ is the net normal force exerted between the tires and the ground. Summing forces parallel to the ground and employing Newton’s second law, we have from Fig. 6.14

$$
m \frac{dV_\infty}{dt} = T - D - R
$$