32

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

number 6. Finally, the triple-slotted Fowler flap was developed by Boeing for use on the 727 jet transport in the 1960s.

Examine the Douglas DC-3 and the Lockheed L-14 shown in Figs. 1.22 and 1.24, respectively. These airplanes epitomize the mature, propeller-driven aircraft of the 1930s. Here you see cantilever wing monoplanes powered by radial engines enclosed in NACA cowlings, and equipped with variable-pitch propellers. They are all-metal airplanes with retractable landing gear, and they use flaps for high lift during takeoff and landing. It is for these reasons that the 1930s can be called the golden age of aeronautical engineering.

Three other technical developments of the late 1930s are worth mentioning. One is the advent of the pressurized airplane. Along with the decrease in atmospheric pressure with increasing altitude, there is the concurrent decrease in the volume of oxygen necessary for human breathing. Hence, the useful cruising altitude for airplanes was limited to about 18,000 ft or lower. Above this altitude for any reasonable length of time, a human being would soon lose consciousness due to lack of oxygen. The initial solution to the problem of sustained high-altitude flight was the pressure suit and the auxiliary oxygen supply breathed through an oxygen mask. The first pilot to use a pressure suit was Wiley Post. Looking like a deep-sea diver, Post set an altitude record of 55,000 ft in his Lockheed Vega in December 1934. However, this was not a practical solution for the average passenger on board an airliner. The answer was to pressurize the entire passenger cabin of the airplane, so as to provide a shirtsleeve environment for the flight crew and passengers. The first airplane to incorporate this feature was a specially modified and structurally strengthened Lockheed 10E Electra for the Army Air Corps in 1937. Designated the XC-35 (it looked much like the Lockheed L-14 in Fig. 1.24), this airplane had a service ceiling of 32,000 ft. It was the forerunner of all the modern pressurized airliners of today.

Along with pressurization for the occupants, high-altitude aircraft needed “pressurization” for the engine. Engine power is nearly proportional to the atmospheric density; without assistance, engine power simply dropped too low at high altitudes, and this was the major *mechanical* obstacle to high-altitude flight. However, assistance came in the form of the supercharger, a mechanical pump that simply compressed the incoming air before it went into the engine manifold. Supercharger development was a high priority during the 1930s and 1940s; it was a major development program within NACA. All high-performance military aircraft during World War II were equipped with superchargers as a matter of necessity.

Finally, we mention an interesting development in aerodynamic design which took place during the era of the mature, propeller-driven airplane, but which was to have an unexpected impact well beyond that era. It has to do with the boundary layer on a surface in an airstream—that thin region adjacent to the surface where the mechanism of air friction is dominant. Ever since Ludwig Prandtl in Germany introduced the concept of the boundary layer in 1904, it has been recognized that two types of flow were possible—laminar flow and turbulent flow—in the boundary layer. Moreover, it was known that the friction drag is higher for a turbulent boundary layer than for a laminar boundary layer. Since mother nature always moves toward the state of maximum disorder, and turbulent flow is much more disorderly than