# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

If the leading-edge flap is replaced by a leading-edge slat, as sketched in Fig. 5.29c, the same right shift of the lift curve takes place; but because the deployment of the leading-edge slat effectively increases the planform area by a small amount, there is a small increase in the lift slope, as indicated by the dashed curve in Fig. 5.30c. Because of the favorable influence of the flow through the slot between the slat and the basic airfoil, $(c_l)_{\max}$ for the leading-edge slat is higher than that for the leading-edge flap, also sketched in Fig. 5.30c.

## 5.9.4 Interim Summary

Some type of high-lift device has been used on almost every airplane designed since the early 1930s. Its purpose is to increase the airplane's maximum lift coefficient $(C_L)_{\max}$, hence reducing $V_{\text{stall}}$ via Eq. (5.67). However, simply reducing $V_{\text{stall}}$ to some small value is not the important story obtained from Eq. (5.67). The real story is told by Eq. (5.50) for the maximum velocity of an airplane. Return to Eq. (5.50) for a moment. Note that for a given maximum thrust-to-weight ratio $(T_A)_{\max}/W$, $V_{\max}$ is directly proportional to $\sqrt{W/S}$. The higher the wing loading, the higher $V_{\max}$ is. This is why most high-speed airplanes are designed with high wing loadings. Now return to Eq. (5.67), which shows that $V_{\text{stall}}$ is proportional to $\sqrt{W/S}$ also. If nothing else is done, a high-speed airplane will have an inordinately high $V_{\text{stall}}$ because of the high wing loading. The solution to this problem is also embodied in Eq. (5.67)—increase $(C_L)_{\max}$ sufficiently that, in spite of the large $W/S$, $V_{\text{stall}}$ will be acceptable. In turn, high-lift devices are the means to obtain the sufficient increase in $(C_L)_{\max}$. From this point of view, the argument can be made that high-lift devices make efficient high-speed flight possible.

On another note, we should mention that the values of $(C_L)_{\max}$ achieved by high-lift devices on *finite wings* will be less than the typical airfoil values of $(c_l)_{\max}$ shown in Fig. 5.28. This is especially true for swept wings. Detailed information for $(C_L)_{\max}$ for a given wing configuration should be obtained from wind tunnel tests. For our purposes in this chapter, some guidelines are given in Table 5.3, where the $(C_L)_{\max}$ values are those recommended by Torenbeek in Ref. 35. In Table 5.3, $\Lambda$ is the sweep angle of the quarter-chord line.

**Table 5.3**

| High-Lift Device |  | Typical Flap Angle |  | $(C_L)_{\max}/\cos \Lambda$ |  |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Trailing Edge | Leading Edge | Takeoff | Landing | Takeoff | Landing |
| Plain flap |  | 20° | 60° | 1.4-1.6 | 1.7-2.0 |
| Single-slotted flap |  | 20° | 40° | 1.5-1.7 | 1.8-2.2 |
| Fowler flap |  |  |  |  |  |
|  single-slotted |  | 15° | 40° | 2.0-2.2 | 2.5-2.9 |
|  double-slotted |  | 20° | 50° | 1.7-1.95 | 2.3-2.7 |
|  double-slotted | slat | 20° | 50° | 2.3-2.6 | 2.8-3.2 |
|  triple-slotted | slat | 20° | 40° | 2.4-2.7 | 3.2-3.5 |