306

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## 5.15.1 More on Endurance

The simplest way to think about endurance is in terms of pounds of fuel consumed per hour. The smaller the number of pounds of fuel consumed per hour, the longer the airplane will be able to stay in the air, that is, the longer the endurance. Let us examine what dictates this parameter, first for a propeller-driven airplane and then for a jet airplane.

**Propeller-Driven Airplane** The specific fuel consumption for a propeller-driven airplane is based on power. The conventional expression for specific fuel consumption (SFC) is given in terms of the inconsistent units of horsepower and hours.

$$
\mathrm{SFC}=\frac{\text{lb of fuel consumed}}{(\text{shaft bhp})\ (\text{h})}
\qquad [5.170]
$$

where the shaft brake horsepower is provided by the engine directly to the shaft. In turn, the horsepower available for the airplane is given by

$$
HP_A=\eta_{pr}(\text{shaft bhp})
$$

In steady, level flight, recall that power available equals power required: $HP_A = HP_R$. Hence, from Eq. (5.170), we can write the relation

$$
\frac{\text{lb of fuel consumed}}{\text{hour}} \propto (\mathrm{SFC})\,(HP_R)
\qquad [5.171]
$$

Therefore, *minimum* pounds of fuel consumed per hour are obtained with *minimum* $HP_R$. This minimum point on the power required curve is labeled point 1 in Fig. 5.47. This point defines the conditions for maximum endurance for a propeller-driven airplane. Moreover, from Section 5.6.2, this point also corresponds to the aerodynamic condition of flying at $(C_L^{3/2}/C_D)_{\max}$. The velocity at which this occurs is the flight velocity for best endurance for a propeller-driven airplane. All this information is labeled in association with point 1 in Fig. 5.47.

**Jet-Propelled Airplane** The specific fuel consumption for a jet-propelled airplane is based on thrust. The conventional expression for thrust specific fuel consumption (TSFC) is given in terms of the inconsistent unit of hours.

$$
\mathrm{TSFC}=\frac{\text{lb of fuel consumed}}{(\text{thrust})\ (\text{h})}
\qquad [5.172]
$$

Hence, from Eq. (5.172), and noting that in steady, level flight $T_A = T_R$, we can write

$$
\frac{\text{lb of fuel consumed}}{\text{h}} = T_R(\mathrm{TSFC})
\qquad [5.173]
$$

Therefore, *minimum* pounds of fuel consumed per hour are obtained with *minimum* $T_R$. This minimum point on the thrust required curve is labeled point 2 in Fig. 5.47. This point defines the conditions for maximum endurance for a jet-propelled airplane. Moreover, from Section 5.3.2, this point also corresponds to the aerodynamic plane.