330

PART 2 $\bullet$ Airplane Performance

Differentiating Eq. (6.26) with respect to $q_\infty$, remembering that $n$ is a function of $V_\infty$ hence $q_\infty$, and setting the derivative equal to zero, we have

$$
\frac{dR}{dq_\infty}=\frac{2g\rho_\infty\sqrt{n^2-1}-2g\rho_\infty q_\infty n(n^2-1)^{-1/2}\,dn/dq_\infty}{g^2\rho_\infty^2(n^2-1)}=0
$$

or

$$
2g\rho_\infty\sqrt{n^2-1}-2g\rho_\infty q_\infty \frac{n}{\sqrt{n^2-1}}\frac{dn}{dq_\infty}=0
$$

or

$$
n^2-1-q_\infty n\frac{dn}{dq_\infty}=0
\qquad\qquad [6.27]
$$

The load factor $n$ as a function of $q_\infty$ is given by Eq. (6.17), written in terms of $q_\infty$.

$$
n^2=\frac{q_\infty}{K(W/S)}\left(\frac{T}{W}-q_\infty\frac{C_{D,0}}{W/S}\right)
\qquad\qquad [6.28]
$$

Differentiating Eq. (6.28) with respect to $q_\infty$ gives

$$
n\frac{dn}{dq_\infty}=\frac{T/W}{2K(W/S)}-\frac{q_\infty C_{D,0}}{K(W/S)^2}
\qquad\qquad [6.29]
$$

Substituting Eqs. (6.28) and (6.29) into Eq. (6.27), we have

$$
\frac{q_\infty}{K(W/S)}\frac{T}{W}-\frac{q_\infty^2C_{D,0}}{K(W/S)^2}-1-\frac{q_\infty(T/W)}{2K(W/S)}+\frac{q_\infty^2C_{D,0}}{K(W/S)^2}=0
$$

Combining and canceling terms, we get

$$
\frac{q_\infty(T/W)}{2K(W/S)}=1
$$

or

$$
q_\infty=\frac{2K(W/S)}{T/W}
\qquad\qquad [6.30]
$$

Since $q_\infty=\frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2$, Eq. (6.30) becomes

$$
(V_\infty)_{R_{\min}}=\sqrt{\frac{4K(W/S)}{\rho_\infty(T/W)}}
\qquad\qquad [6.31]
$$

Equation (6.31) gives the value of $V_\infty$ which corresponds to the minimum turning radius; this velocity is denoted by $(V_\infty)_{R_{\min}}$ in Eq. (6.31). In turn, the load factor corresponding to this velocity is found by substituting Eq. (6.30) into Eq. (6.28)

$$
n^2=\frac{q_\infty(T/W)}{K(W/S)}-\frac{q_\infty^2C_{D,0}}{K(W/S)^2}
$$

$$
=\frac{2K(W/S)(T/W)}{(T/W)K(W/S)}-\frac{4K^2(W/S)^2C_{D,0}}{(T/W)^2K(W/S)^2}=2-\frac{4KC_{D,0}}{(T/W)^2}
$$