# CHAPTER 1 • The Evolution of the Airplane and Its Performance: A Short History

seven aircraft after considerable pressure from their respective governments. After a long development program, the Concorde went into service on January 21, 1976. In the final analysis, the Concorde was a technical, if not financial, success. It has been in regular service since 1976. It represents an almost revolutionary (rather than evolutionary) airplane design in that no such aircraft existed before it. However, the Concorde designers were not operating in a vacuum. Examining Fig. 1.35, we see a supersonic configuration which incorporates good supersonic aerodynamics---a sharp-nosed slender fuselage and a cranked delta wing with a thin airfoil. The Concorde designers had at least 15 years of military airplane design experience with such features to draw upon. Today, we know that any future second-generation SST will have to be economical in service and environmentally acceptable. The design of such a vehicle is one of the great challenges in aeronautics. Perhaps some of the readers of this book will someday play a part in meeting this challenge.

Today, we are still in the era of the jet-propelled airplane, and we will be there for the indefinite future. The evolution of this era can be seen at a glance just by flipping through Figs. 1.28 to 1.35. Here we see subsonic jet planes, some with straight wings and others with swept wings, all with high aspect ratios. We also see supersonic jet planes, some with straight wings and others with delta wings, all with low aspect ratios. In their time, the designs of all these airplanes were driven by the quest for speed and altitude, mitigated in some cases by the realities of economic and environmental constraints. In the future, we will continue the quest for speed and altitude, while at the same time these constraints (and possibly others) will become even more imposing. In the process, the challenges to be faced by future airplane designers will only become more interesting.

## 1.3 UNCONVENTIONAL DESIGNS (INNOVATIVE CONCEPTS)

We end this chapter with a mention, albeit brief, of the design of certain aircraft that do not “fit the mold” of previous, conventional airplanes, that is, unconventional airplane designs. Section 1.2 focused on airplanes that set the standard for airplane design—airplanes that came to be accepted as representative of the *conventional airplane*. However, this is not to downgrade the importance of unconventional thinking for the design of new aircraft that look different and/or fly differently. A case can be made that George Cayley’s concept of what today we call the modern configuration airplane (Fig. 1.6) was, in its time, quite “unconventional” when viewed against the panorama of flapping-wing ornithopter concepts that preceded it. For this reason, we might also entitle this section “Innovative Concepts,” because most unconventional designs are derived from innovative thinking.

Airplanes that take off and land *vertically* are unconventional airplanes. Any such airplane is classified as a *vertical-takeoff-and-landing* (VTOL) airplane. (We are considering fixed-wing VTOL airplanes here, not helicopters, which are a completely different consideration.) One of the best examples of a successful VTOL airplane,