# PREFACE

There are a number of books on airplane performance, and a number of books on airplane design. Question: Where does the present book fit into the scheme of things? Answer: Overlapping and integrating both subjects. On one hand, this book gives a presentation of airplane performance at the college level. It covers both static and accelerated performance topics. On the other hand, this book also gives a presentation of airplane design, with an emphasis on the *philosophy* and *methodology* of design. Some emphasis is also placed on historical material and design case studies in order to illustrate this philosophy and methodology.

This book is not a handbook for airplane design. It is intended to be used in courses in airplane performance as a main text, and in courses in airplane design as an introduction to the philosophy of design, and hence in conjunction with an existing detailed text on airplane design. To paraphrase a popular television commercial, this book is not intended to make a course in handbook engineering design---rather it is intended to make a course in handbook engineering design better. This author hopes that such intentions are indeed achieved in the present book.

The major features of this book are as follows.

1. This book is unique in that it is the first to provide an integrated introductory treatment of both aircraft performance and aircraft design---two subjects that are so closely connected that they can be viewed as technological Siamese twins.

2. This book is intentionally written in a conversational style, much like the author's previous texts, in order to enhance the readers' understanding and enjoyment.

3. The book is divided into three parts. Part I contains introductory material that is important for an understanding of aircraft performance and design. Chapter 1 deals with the history of aircraft design. It is important for students and practitioners of aircraft design to understand this history because the design of a new airplane is usually evolutionary; a new airplane is frequently an evolutionary extension of one or more previous designs. Even the most revolutionary of new airplane designs contain some of the genes of almost all previous aircraft. Hence, Chapter 1 is an essential part of this book. Other historical notes appear elsewhere in the book. Chapters 2 and 3 are overviews of aerodynamics and propulsion, respectively. These chapters focus on only those aspects of aerodynamics and propulsion that are necessary for an understanding and application of both aircraft performance (Part II) and aircraft design (Part III). However, they serve a secondary function; they provide a self-contained overview of theoretical and applied aspects of aerodynamics and propulsion that help the reader obtain a broader perspective of these subjects. So Chapters 2 and 3, in addition to being essential to the material in Parts II and III, have intrinsic educational value in and of themselves, no matter what may be the reader's background.

4. Part II deals with static and accelerated aircraft performance. The basic equations of motion are derived in Chapter 4. These equations are then specialized for the study of static performance (no acceleration) in Chapter 5, and are used in Chapter 6 in their more general form for performance problems involving acceleration. The material is presented in two parallel tracks: (1) graphical solutions, and (2) closed-form analytical solutions. The value of each approach is emphasized.

ix