412

PART 3 • Airplane Design

Compare the value of $W/S = 41.5\ \mathrm{lb/ft^2}$ obtained from the landing distance constraint, Eq. (8.31), with the value of $W/S = 29.3\ \mathrm{lb/ft^2}$ obtained from the stall constraint, Eq. (8.27). Clearly, if $W/S < 41.5\ \mathrm{lb/ft^2}$, the landing distance will be shorter than 2,200 ft, clearly satisfying the requirements. Hence, for our airplane design, $W/S$ is determined from the specified stall velocity, namely,

$$
\frac{W}{S} = 29.3\ \mathrm{lb/ft^2}
$$

[8.32]

The value of $W/S$ from Eq. (8.32) along with that for $W_0$ from Eq. (8.23) allows us to obtain the wing area.

$$
S = \frac{W_0}{W/S} = \frac{5{,}158}{29.3} = 176\ \mathrm{ft^2}
$$

[8.33]

## 8.4.3 Thrust-to-Weight Ratio

The value of $T/W$ determines in part the takeoff distance, rate of climb, and maximum velocity. To obtain the design value of $T/W$, we have to examine each of these three constraints.

First, let us consider the takeoff distance, which is specified as 2,500 ft to clear a 50-ft obstacle. Using Eq. (6.95) to estimate the ground roll, we have

$$
s_g = \frac{1.21(W/S)}{g\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}(T/W)}
$$

[6.95]

where $(C_L)_{\max}$ in Eq. (6.95) is that value with the flaps only partially extended, consistent with their takeoff setting. Hence, we need to recalculate $(C_L)_{\max}$ for this case. Following the guidance provided in Table 5.3, we assume a flap deflection of $20^\circ$ for takeoff. To return to Fig. 5.28, the $\Delta(c_l)_{\max}$ for a $45^\circ$ flap deflection is 0.9. Assuming a linear variation of $\Delta(c_l)_{\max}$ with flap deflection angle, we have for takeoff $\Delta(c_l)_{\max} = 0.9(25/45) = 0.5$. Hence, for the wing, the average $(c_l)_{\max}$ with a $20^\circ$ flap deflection is $1.7 + 0.5 = 2.2$. Taking into account the finite aspect ratio, as discussed in Section 8.4.1, we have for the wing

$$
(C_L)_{\max} = 0.9(c_l)_{\max} = 0.9(2.2) = 1.98
$$

This is the takeoff value of $(C_L)_{\max}$ that will be used in Eq. (6.95). Returning to Eq. (6.95), we have

$$
s_g = \frac{1.21(W/S)}{g\rho_\infty (C_L)_{\max}(T/W)}
= \frac{(1.21)(29.3)}{(32.2)(0.002377)(1.98)(T/W)}
= \frac{233.9}{T/W}
$$

[8.34]

Recall from our discussion in Section 6.7.1 that when $T$ varies with velocity, as it does for a propeller-driven airplane, the value of $T/W$ in Eq. (6.95) is assumed to be that for a velocity $V_\infty = 0.7V_{LO}$, where $V_{LO}$ is the liftoff velocity, taken as $V_{LO} = 1.1V_{\mathrm{stall}}$.

To calculate the distance while airborne to clear an obstacle (Section 6.7.2), we need the value of $V_{\mathrm{stall}}$ corresponding to the $(C_L)_{\max}$ with flaps in the takeoff position,