466

PART 3 • Airplane Design

the intellectual design process discussed in Section 7.3.1, given as pivot point 1 in Fig. 7.3.

The specifications called for an all-metal trimotor airplane that would have a cruising range of 1,080 mi at a cruise velocity of 150 mi/h. Of greatest importance, however, was the requirement listed at the bottom of the page, that is, that the new airplane at a full takeoff gross weight of 14,200 lb be able to safely takeoff from any TWA airport with one engine out. At that time, the highest airport in the TWA system was in Winslow, Arizona, at an elevation of 4,500 ft. Other aspects of the specifications called for a maximum velocity of at least 185 mi/h, landing speed of not more than 65 mi/h, a minimum rate of climb at sea level of 1,200 ft/min, and a minimum service ceiling of 21,000 ft, compromised downward to 10,000 ft with one engine out.

Donald Douglas and Jack Frye had met several times before, at various aviation functions in the Los Angeles, California, area. They held a strong mutual respect for each other. Since the formation of his company in 1921, most of Douglas’s business dealt with designing and constructing military airplanes, especially a successful line of torpedo airplanes for the Navy. However, he had been recently thinking about venturing as well into the commercial airplane market (airline passenger service had skyrocketed since Charles Lindbergh’s historic solo flight across the Atlantic Ocean in 1927). So Douglas paid serious attention to Frye’s letter. He took it home with him that night, staying awake until 2 AM pondering the ramifications. The next day he met with his core engineering design group and went over the TWA specifications one by one. The discussion lasted well into the evening. It was Tuesday. Douglas suggested they think about it and meet again that Friday. The group had already made the decision to submit a proposal to TWA; Friday’s discussion was to be about the basic nature of the airplane design itself.

The TWA specifications (Fig. 8.34) called for a “trimotored monoplane” as being preferred, but held out the possibility of the design’s being a biplane. Trimotor monoplanes were not new; the Fokker F-10 and the Ford trimotor had been flying in airplane service for almost 5 years. However, this airplane configuration suffered a public setback on March 31, 1931, when a TWA Fokker trimotor crashed in a Kansas wheat field, killing among the passengers the famous Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne. As for the biplane configuration, the early 1930s was a period of drag reduction via streamlining, and biplanes with their higher drag were on the way out.

So when the Friday meeting started out, it was no surprise that the chief engineer, James H. “Dutch” Kindelberger, stated emphatically:

> I think that we’re damn fools if we don’t shoot for a twin-engined job instead of a trimotor. People are skeptical about the trimotors after the Rockne thing. Why build anything that even looks like a Fokker or Ford? Both Pratt & Whitney and Wright-Aeronautical have some new engines on the test blocks that will be available by the time we’re ready for them. Lots of horses . . . any two of them will pull more power than any trimotor flying right now.

Douglas agreed. As essential design decision was made without making a single calculation.