382

PART 3 • Airplane Design

transports, starting at least with the Douglas DC-1 in 1932, which was designed to meet or exceed various specifications by an airline company. (The airline was TWA, named Transcontinental and Western Air at that time.) An example of the latter is the design of the rocket-powered Bell X-1, the first airplane to exceed the speed of sound in level or climbing flight (October 14, 1947). The design process is indeed an intellectual activity, but a rather special one that is tempered by good intuition developed via experience, by attention paid to successful airplane designs that have been used in the past, and by (generally proprietary) design procedures and databases (handbooks, etc.) that are a part of every airplane manufacturer.

The remainder of this book focuses on the philosophy and general methodology of airplane design, that is, the intellectual activity. It is not intended to be a handbook, nor does it directly impart intuition, which is something that grows with experience. Rather, our intent is to provide some feeling and appreciation for the design experience. In this respect, this book is intended to serve as an intellectual steppingstone and natural companion to the several mainline airplane design texts presently available, such as Refs. 25, 35, and 52 to 54. These design texts are replete with detailed design procedures and data—all necessary for the successful design of an airplane. This book takes a more philosophical approach which is intended to provide an intellectual framework on which the reader can hang all those details presented elsewhere and then stand back and see the broader picture of the airplane design process. This author hopes that by studying two (or more) books—this book and one (or more) of the detailed mainline design texts—the reader will enjoy a greatly enhanced learning process. To paraphrase a currently popular television commercial in the United States, the present book is not intended to make the course in airplane design; it is intended to make the course in airplane design *better*.

## 7.2 PHASES OF AIRPLANE DESIGN

From the time that an airplane first materializes as a new thought in the mind of one or more persons to the time that the finished product rolls out of the manufacturer's door, the complete design process has gone through three distinct phases that are carried out in sequence. These phases are, in chronological order, conceptual design, preliminary design, and detail design. They are characterized as follows.

### 7.2.1 Conceptual Design

The design process starts with a set of specifications (requirements) for a new airplane, or much less frequently as the response to the desire to implement some pioneering, innovative new ideas and technology. In either case, there is a rather concrete goal toward which the designers are aiming. The first steps toward achieving that goal constitute the *conceptual design phase*. Here, within a certain somewhat fuzzy latitude, the overall shape, size, weight, and performance of the new design are determined. The product of the conceptual design phase is a layout (on paper or on a computer