236

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## Example 5.7

Calculate the power required curve at 30,000 ft for the Gulfstream IV described in Example 5.1.

### Solution

In Example 5.1 a tabulation of $T_R$ versus $V_\infty$ is made (see Table 5.1). This tabulation is repeated in Table 5.2 along with new entries for $P_R$ obtained from Eq. (5.52). The values for $P_R$ are first quoted in the consistent units of foot-pounds per second and then converted to the inconsistent unit of horsepower. Here we note that

$$
1\ \mathrm{hp} = 550\ \mathrm{ft}\cdot\mathrm{lb}/\mathrm{s} = 746\ \mathrm{W}
$$

### Table 5.2

| $V_\infty$ (ft/s) | $T_R$ (lb) | $P_R$ (ft·lb/s) | $P_R$ (hp) |
|---|---:|---:|---:|
| 300 | 11,768 | $0.3530 \times 10^7$ | 6,419 |
| 400 | 7,313 | $0.2925 \times 10^7$ | 5,319 |
| 500 | 5,617 | $0.2809 \times 10^7$ | 5,107 |
| 600 | 5,084 | $0.3050 \times 10^7$ | 5,546 |
| 700 | 5,166 | $0.3616 \times 10^7$ | 6,575 |
| 800 | 5,636 | $0.4509 \times 10^7$ | 8,198 |
| 900 | 6,384 | $0.5746 \times 10^7$ | 10,447 |
| 1,000 | 7,354 | $0.7354 \times 10^7$ | 13,371 |
| 1,100 | 8,512 | $0.9363 \times 10^7$ | 17,023 |
| 1,200 | 9,838 | $0.1181 \times 10^8$ | 21,465 |
| 1,300 | 11,321 | $0.1472 \times 10^8$ | 26,759 |

The power required curve is plotted in Fig. 5.17.

The power required curve in Fig. 5.17 is qualitatively the same shape as the thrust required curve shown in Fig. 5.4; at low velocities, $P_R$ first decreases as $V_\infty$ increases, then goes through a minimum, and finally increases as $V_\infty$ increases. The physical reasons for this shape are the same as discussed earlier in regard to the shape of the thrust required curve; that is, at low velocity, the drag due to lift dominates the power required, and at high velocity the zero-lift drag is the dominant factor. Quantitatively, the powered required curve is different from the thrust required curve. Comparison of Figs. 5.17 and 5.4 show that *minimum $P_R$ occurs at a lower velocity than minimum $T_R$.*

## 5.6.2 Analytical Approach

A simple equation for $P_R$ in terms of the aerodynamic coefficients is obtained as follows. From Eqs. (5.52) and (5.7), we have

$$
P_R = T_R V_\infty = \frac{W}{C_L/C_D} V_\infty
\qquad [5.53]
$$