544

# Postface

vehicles—is coming on the scene. These are ultra-miniature airplanes, with wing spans usually less than 15 cm, for purposes of detailed reconnaissance for military and law enforcement agencies. Imagine “mechanical birds” or “mechanical insects” that fly through hallways, poking around corners, buzzing by windows. These micro air vehicles pose dramatic new challenges in airplane design. The aerodynamics is totally different—very low Reynolds numbers. The miniature power plants, control and stability, and flight management (avionics) are all different.

Another class of flight vehicles, one that is both old and new but which has a spectacular new future, is uninhabited air vehicles (UAVs). Remotely piloted airplanes have been used since World War I at different times and places, but their serious use as battlefield reconnaissance vehicles began in 1982 when the Israelis employed them successfully in the Lebanon conflict. Until recently these flight vehicles were designated as RPVs, and they were, for the most part, overgrown model airplanes (e.g., with 6-ft wingspans). However, these have now become a subclass of a much larger array of pilotless vehicles under the designation of UAVs. In addition to short-range tactical reconnaissance, new UAVs are now being designed for very high-altitude, long-endurance strategic intelligence missions. These are full-size airplanes. For example, the Teledyne Ryan Global Hawk has a wingspan of 116 ft, and the Lockheed-Martin/Boeing Dark Star spans 65 ft, both designed for high-altitude, high-endurance flight. Another subclass of UAVs is uninhabited combat air vehicles (UCAVs), full-size pilotless aircraft designed for strike and fighter roles. There are several advantages of using pilotless aircraft for combat. By removing the pilot, space and weight are saved, which has a synergistic benefit that the airplane can be smaller, hence reducing drag. Also, the airplane can be made much more maneuverable; a 9-g maneuver is the maximum that a human pilot can endure without passing out, and even that for only a few seconds, whereas without the pilot the airplane can be designed for 25-g maneuvers and better. Another advantage of using pilotless airplanes in combat is that much more aggressive tactics can be employed that would otherwise not be used if a pilot’s life hung in the balance.

Other new airplane designs will push the frontiers of flight in the twenty-first century. New supersonic airplanes for commercial use—a new generation of supersonic transport and supersonic executive general aviation airplanes—will very likely appear in the first decade of the new century. And the dream of hypersonic airplanes will be pursued, although most likely for military rather than for commercial purposes.

So a final word to you. Yes, aeronautical engineering has matured; the aeronautical engineers of the past century have done their job admirably and made great progress. However, there is much yet to do and to accomplish. The second century of flight will be full of interesting design challenges. Indeed, if you desire, you will have the opportunity to participate in the design of new airplanes, and many more than just one. I hope that you will find the experience of reading this book to have been rewarding when you press on to these new design challenges. If this book has helped to give you insight into airplane performance and the philosophy of airplane design, then I can rest easy. My task is done. Yours is just beginning.

John D. Anderson, Jr.