# 5.7.2 Turbojet and Turbofan Engines

Turbojet and turbofan engines are rated in terms of thrust. Hence, to calculate the power available, simply use Eq. (5.58), repeated here:

$$
P_A = T_A V_\infty
$$

Turbojet engines are discussed in Section 3.4, which you should review at this point in your reading. The variation of $P_A$ with velocity and altitude is reflected through the variation of $T_A$. Hence, for a turbojet engine:

1. At subsonic speeds, $T_A$ is essentially constant. Hence, from Eq. (5.88), $P_A$ is directly proportional to $V_\infty$. For supersonic speeds, use Eq. (3.21) for $T_A$, that is,

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_{\text{Mach }1}} = 1 + 1.18(M_\infty - 1)
$$

$$
\text{[3.21]}
$$

In this case, $P_A$ for supersonic speeds is a nonlinear function of $V_\infty$.

2. The effect of altitude on $T_A$ is given by Eq. (3.19); the effect on $P_A$ is the same.

$$
\frac{P_A}{(P_A)_0} = \frac{\rho}{\rho_0}
$$

$$
\text{[5.59]}
$$

Turbofan engines are discussed in Section 3.5; you are encouraged to review this section before proceeding further. As in the case of the turbojet, the variation of $P_A$ for a turbofan is reflected through the variation of $T_A$. Hence, for a turbofan:

1. The Mach number variation of thrust is given by Eq. (3.23), written as

$$
T_A/(T_A)_{V=0} = A M_\infty^{-n}
$$

$$
\text{[5.60]}
$$

Power available is then obtained from Eq. (5.58), $P_A = T_A V_\infty$. This will not, in general, be a linear variation for $P_A$. However, as noted in Section 3.5.1, for turbofans in the cruise range, $T_A$ is essentially constant; hence in the cruise range, $P_A$ varies directly with $V_\infty$ via Eq. (5.58).

2. The altitude variation for turbofan thrust is approximated by Eq. (3.25), repeated here:

$$
\frac{T_A}{(T_A)_0} = \left[\frac{\rho}{\rho_0}\right]^m
$$

$$
\text{[5.61]}
$$

Hence the variation of $P_A$ with altitude is the same as given for $T_A$ in Eq. (5.61), namely,

$$
\frac{P_A}{(P_A)_0} = \left[\frac{\rho}{\rho_0}\right]^m
$$

$$
\text{[5.62]}
$$