CHAPTER 3 &nbsp; &bull; &nbsp; Some Propulsion Characteristics 185

Combining Eqs. (3.37) and (3.38), we have

$$
c_t=\frac{cP}{T}
\qquad [3.39]
$$

For the reciprocating engine/propeller combination, $c$ is defined with $P$ as the engine shaft power, as given by Eq. (3.10). In turn, $P$ is related to the power available from the engine/propeller combination $P_A$, via Eq. (3.13), as

$$
P=\frac{P_A}{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}
\qquad [3.40]
$$

Moreover,

$$
P_A=TV_\infty
\qquad [3.41]
$$

Combining Eqs. (3.40) and (3.41), we have

$$
P=\frac{TV_\infty}{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}
\qquad [3.42]
$$

Substituting Eq. (3.42) into (3.39), we obtain

$$
c_t=\frac{cV_\infty}{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}
\qquad [3.43]
$$

Equation (3.43) allows us to couch the specific fuel consumption for a reciprocating engine $c$ in terms of an equivalent “thrust” specific fuel consumption $c_t$. The same relation can be used to couch the specific fuel consumption of a turboprop based on the equivalent shaft power $c_{es}$, defined by Eq. (3.35), in terms of an equivalent “thrust” specific fuel consumption $c_t$.

## 3.8 SUMMARY

The basic operation of various flight propulsion systems has been discussed in this chapter. In particular, the variations of thrust, power, and specific fuel consumption with flight velocity and altitude have been examined for each of these systems; this information is particularly relevant to the airplane performance and design concepts to be discussed in the remainder of this book. To help sort out these variations for different types of engines, a block diagram is shown in Fig. 3.29. Examine this block diagram carefully, and return to the pertinent sections of this chapter if you are not clear about any of the entries in the diagram. Please note that the velocity and altitude variations shown in Fig. 3.29 are approximate, first-order results, as explained throughout this chapter. They are useful for our purposes of estimating airplane performance and for the conceptual design of an airplane; they should not be taken too literally for any detailed analyses where more precise engine data are needed.