CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane 399

The sum of these weights is the total weight of the airplane $W$. Again, $W$ varies throughout the flight because fuel is being consumed, and for a military combat airplane, ordnance may be dropped or expended, leading to a decrease in the payload weight.

The design takeoff gross weight $W_0$ is the weight of the airplane at the instant it begins its mission. It includes the weight of all the fuel on board at the beginning of the flight. Hence,

$$
W_0 = W_{\text{crew}} + W_{\text{payload}} + W_{\text{fuel}} + W_{\text{empty}}
$$

[8.1]

In Eq. (8.1), $W_{\text{fuel}}$ is the weight of the full fuel load at the beginning of the flight.

In Eq. (8.1), $W_0$ is the important quantity for which we want a first estimate; $W_0$ is the desired result from pivot point 2 in Fig. 7.3. To help make this estimate, Eq. (8.1) can be rearranged as follows. If we denote $W_{\text{fuel}}$ by $W_f$ and $W_{\text{empty}}$ by $W_e$ (for notational simplicity), Eq. (8.1) can be written as

$$
W_0 = W_{\text{crew}} + W_{\text{payload}} + W_f + W_e
$$

[8.2]

or

$$
W_0 = W_{\text{crew}} + W_{\text{payload}} + \frac{W_f}{W_0} W_0 + \frac{W_e}{W_0} W_0
$$

[8.3]

Solving Eq. (8.3) for $W_0$, we have

$$
W_0 = \frac{W_{\text{crew}} + W_{\text{payload}}}{1 - W_f/W_0 - W_e/W_0}
$$

[8.4]

The form of Eq. (8.4) is particularly useful. Although at this stage we do not have a value of $W_0$, we can fairly readily obtain values of the ratios $W_f/W_0$ and $W_e/W_0$, as we will see next. Then Eq. (8.4) provides a relation from which $W_0$ can be obtained in an iterative fashion. [The iteration is required because in Eq. (8.4), $W_f/W_0$ and $W_e/W_0$ may themselves be functions of $W_0$.]

## 8.3.1 Estimation of $W_e/W_0$

Most airplane designs are evolutionary rather than revolutionary; that is, a new design is usually an evolutionary change from previously existing airplanes. For this reason, historical, statistical data on previous airplanes provide a starting point for the conceptual design of a new airplane. We will use such data here. In particular, Fig. 8.1 is a plot of $W_e/W_0$ versus $W_0$ for a number of reciprocating engine, propeller-driven airplanes. Data for 19 airplanes covering the time period from 1930 to the present are shown. The data show a remarkable consistency. The values of $W_e/W_0$ tend to cluster around a horizontal line at $W_e/W_0 = 0.62$. For gross weights above 10,000 lb, $W_e/W_0$ tends to be slightly higher for some of the aircraft. However, there is no technical reason for this; rather, the higher values for the heavier airplanes are most likely an historical phenomenon. The P-51, B-10, P-38, DC-3, and B-26 are all examples of 1930's technology. A later airplane, the Lockheed P2V Neptune, is based