106

PART 1 $\bullet$ Preliminary Considerations

are only two sources of aerodynamic force on a body moving through a fluid—the pressure distribution and the shear stress distribution acting over the body surface. Therefore, *there are only two general types of drag:*

*Pressure drag*—due to a net imbalance of surface pressure acting in the drag direction

*Friction drag*—due to the net effect of shear stress acting in the drag direction

All the different types of drag that have been defined in the literature fall in one or the other of the above two categories. It is important to remember this.

It is also important to recognize that the analytical prediction of drag is much harder and more tenuous than that of lift. Drag is a different kind of beast—it is driven in large part by viscous effects. Closed-form analytical expressions for drag exist only for some special cases. Even computational fluid dynamics is much less reliable for drag predictions than for lift. Indeed, in a recent survey by Jobe (Ref. 27), the following comment is made:

> Except for the isolated cases of drag due to lift at small angle of attack and supersonic wave drag for smooth, slender bodies, drag prediction is beyond the capability of current numerical aerodynamic models.

However, faced with this situation, people responsible for airplane design and analysis have assimilated many empirical data on drag, and have synthesized various methodologies for drag prediction. About these methodologies, Jobe (Ref. 27) states:

> Each has its own peculiarities and limitations. Additionally each airframe manufacturer has compiled drag handbooks that are highly prized and extremely proprietary.

## Subsonic Drag

*Airfoils* Let us first consider the case of drag on a two-dimensional airfoil shape in subsonic flow. We have already discussed this matter somewhat in Section 2.5; variations of the airfoil drag coefficient are shown in Figs. 2.6b, 2.9, 2.11, and 2.18. Return to Fig. 2.18, for example, where the drag coefficient for an NACA 64-212 airfoil is shown as a function of $c_l$, and hence as a function of $\alpha$ (due to the linear