420

PART 3 • Airplane Design

tell us exactly what the precise dimensions and shape ought to be. Therefore, pivot point 4 in our intellectual process of airplane design is where intuition, experience, and the art of airplane design most strongly come into play. It is impossible to convey these assets in one particular section of one particular book. Rather, our purpose here is to simply illustrate the philosophy that goes into the configuration layout.

## 8.6.1 Overall Type of Configuration

There are some basic configuration decisions to make up front. Do we use one or two engines? Do we use a tractor (propeller in front) or a pusher (propeller in back) arrangement (or both)? Will the wing position be low-wing, mid-wing, or high-wing? (Indeed, do we have two wings, i.e., a biplane configuration? This is not very likely in modern airplane designs; the biplane configuration was essentially phased out in the 1930s, although today there are good reasons to consider the biplane for aerobatic and agricultural airplanes. We will not consider the biplane configuration here.)

First, let us consider the number of engines. The weight of 5,158 lb puts our airplane somewhat on the borderline of single- and twin-engine general aviation airplanes. We could have a rather heavy single-engine airplane, or a light twin-engine one. We need 362.5 hp—can we get that from a single, existing piston engine? (We have to deal with an existing engine; rarely is a new general aviation airplane design enough incentive for the small engine manufacturers to go to the time and expense of designing a new engine.) Examining the available piston engines at the time of writing, we find that the Textron Lycoming TIO/LTIO-540-V is rated at 360 hp supercharged to 18,000 ft. This appears to be the engine for us. It is only 2.5 hp less than our calculations show is required based on the rate-of-climb specification. We could tweak the airplane design, say, by slightly reducing the weight or slightly increasing the aspect ratio, both of which would reduce the power required for climb and would allow us to meet the performance specification with this engine. The fact that it is supercharged to 18,000 ft, not the 20,000 ft we assumed for our consideration of $V_{max}$, is not a problem. The free-stream density ratio between 20,000 and 18,000 ft is $1.2673/1.3553 = 0.935$. Hence, the engine power at 20,000 ft will be $(360\ \mathrm{hp})(0.935) = 336.6\ \mathrm{hp}$. This is more than enough to meet the calculated requirement of 303.1 hp for $V_{max}$ at 20,000 ft. *Therefore, we choose a single-engine configuration,* using the following engine with the following characteristics:

*Textron Lycoming TIO/LTIO-540-V Piston Engine*

Rated power output at sea level (turbosupercharged to 18,000 ft): 360 hp

Number of cylinders: 6

Compression ratio: 7.3

Dry weight: 547 lb

Length: 53.21 in

Width: 34.88 in

Height: 24.44 in