# Preface

5. Parts I and II provide the material for a complete one-semester course on aircraft performance at the junior-senior level.

6. Parts I and II are sprinkled with “design cameos”—boxed discussions of how the material being discussed at that stage is relevant to aircraft design. These design cameos are a unique feature of the present book. They are part of the overall integrated discussion of performance and design that is a hallmark of this book. In addition, many worked examples are included in Parts I and II as a means to support and enhance the reader’s understanding of and comfort level with the material. Homework problems are included at the end of most of the chapters, as appropriate to the nature of each chapter.

7. Part III is all about aircraft design, but with a different style and purpose than existing airplane design texts. Chapter 7 lays out an intellectual, almost philosophical road map for the process of aircraft design. Then the methodology is applied to the design of a propeller-driven airplane in Chapter 8, and jet-propelled airplanes in Chapter 9. In addition, Chapters 8 and 9 are enhanced by important case histories of the design of several historic airplanes—another dose of history, but with a powerful purpose, namely to drive home the philosophy and methodology of aircraft design. Part III is not a design handbook; rather, it provides an intellectual perspective on design—a perspective that all airplane designers, past and present, exhibit, whether knowingly or subconsciously. Part III is intended for the first part of a senior design course. The complete book—Parts I, II, and III—is intended to provide a unique “pre-design” experience for the reader. I wanted to create a book that would work synergistically with existing main-line design texts. As mentioned earlier, this book is not intended to constitute a complete course in aircraft design; rather, its purpose is to make such a course a *better and more rewarding* experience for the student.

8. Although “history” is not in the title of this book, another unique aspect is the extensive discussions of the history of airplane design in Chapter 1 and the extensively researched historical case studies presented in chapters 8 and 9. In this vein, the present book carries over some of the tradition and historical flavor of the author’s previous books, in particular some of the historical research contained in the author’s recent book, *The History of Aerodynamics, and Its Impact on Flying Machines* (see Reference 8).

9. There are carefully selected homework problems at the end of most of the chapters—not an overpowering number, but enough to properly reinforce the material in the chapter. There is a Solutions Manual for the use of instructors. Permission is granted to copy and distribute these solutions to students at the discretion of the instructor. In addition, the answers to selected problems are given at the end of the book.

10. Computer software for aircraft performance and design calculations is intentionally not provided with this book. This may be seen as bucking current trends with engineering textbooks. But I want this book to provide a comfortable intellectual experience for the reader, unencumbered by the need to learn how to use someone else’s software. The reader’s experience with software for these subjects will most likely come soon enough in the classroom. However, much of the material in this book is ideally suited to the creation of simple computer programs, and the reader should enjoy the creative experience of writing such programs as he or she wishes.

I wish to acknowledge the author Enzo Angelucci and his wonderful book *Airplanes From the Dawn of Flight to the Present Day*, published in English by McGraw-Hill in 1973. The airplane drawings that appear in Chapter 1 of the present book are taken from his book.

I wish to thank the many colleagues who have provided stimulating discussions during the time that this book was being prepared, as well as the reviewers of the manuscript. I also