CHAPTER 6 • Airplane Performance: Accelerated Flight 341

Examining Eqs. (6.50) and (6.51), we see clearly $R$ will be a minimum and $\omega$ will be a maximum when both $C_L$ and $n$ are maximum. That is,

$$
R_{\min}=\frac{2}{\rho g (C_L)_{\max}}\frac{W}{S}
$$

[6.52]

and

$$
\omega_{\max}=g\sqrt{\frac{\rho_{\infty}(C_L)_{\max}n_{\max}}{2(W/S)}}
$$

[6.53]

However, keep in mind that $n_{\max}$ is itself limited by $(C_L)_{\max}$ via Eq. (6.23), repeated here:

$$
n_{\max}=\frac{1}{2}\rho_{\infty}V_{\infty}^{2}\frac{(C_L)_{\max}}{W/S}
$$

[6.23]

## DESIGN CAMEO

For an instantaneous maneuver, the two design characteristics that are important are the maximum lift coefficient $(C_L)_{\max}$ and wing loading $W/S$. The minimum turn radius can be made smaller, and the maximum turn rate can be made larger, by designing the airplane with a higher $(C_L)_{\max}$ and a smaller $W/S$. For an instantaneous maneuver, the thrust-to-weight ratio does not play a role.

## 6.5 THE V-$n$ DIAGRAM

There are structural limitations on the maximum load factor allowed for a given airplane. These structural limitations were not considered in the previous sections; let us examine them now.

There are two categories of structural limitations in airplane design:

1. *Limit load factor.* This is the boundary associated with *permanent* structural deformation of one or more parts of the airplane. If $n$ is less than the limit load factor, the structure may deflect during a maneuver, but it will return to its original state when $n=1$. If $n$ is greater than the limit load factor, then the airplane structure will experience a permanent deformation, that is, it will incur *structural damage*.

2. *Ultimate load factor.* This is the boundary associated with outright *structural failure*. If $n$ is greater than the ultimate load factor, parts of the airplane will break.