that is, where, from Eq. (5.28)

$$
C_{D,0} = K C_L^2
\qquad [5.28]
$$

This velocity is given by Eq. (5.34).

$$
V_{(L/D)_{\max}} = \left(\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\sqrt{\frac{K}{C_{D,0}}}\frac{W}{S}\right)^{1/2}
\qquad [5.34]
$$

The value of maximum lift-to-drag ratio is given by Eq. (5.30).

$$
\left(\frac{L}{D}\right)_{\max} = \left(\frac{C_L}{C_D}\right)_{\max} = \sqrt{\frac{1}{4C_{D,0}K}}
\qquad [5.30]
$$

## 5.13.2 Range for Jet-Propelled Airplanes

The simplified range equation for a jet-propelled airplane is given by Eq. (5.152), which is written directly in terms of the thrust specific fuel consumption $c_t$. Clearly, maximum range for a jet is not dictated by maximum $L/D$, but rather the maximum value of the product $V_\infty (L/D)$. Let us examine this product. For steady, level flight,

$$
L = W = \frac{1}{2}\rho_\infty V_\infty^2 S C_L
$$

or

$$
V_\infty = \sqrt{\frac{2W}{\rho_\infty S C_L}}
$$

Thus,

$$
V_\infty \frac{L}{D} = \sqrt{\frac{2W}{\rho_\infty S C_L}}\frac{C_L}{C_D}
= \sqrt{\frac{2W}{\rho_\infty S}}\frac{C_L^{1/2}}{C_D}
\qquad [5.154]
$$

Thus the product $V_\infty (L/D)$ is maximum when the airplane is flying at a maximum value of $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$.

Using Eq. (5.154), we obtain a more explicitly useful expression for the range of a jet-propelled airplane. Since Eq. (5.154) involves $W$, and Eq. (5.152) has already been integrated with respect to $W$, we have to return to the general range equation given by Eq. (5.151). Substituting Eq. (5.154) into Eq. (5.151) gives

$$
R = \int_{W_1}^{W_0} \frac{1}{c_t}\sqrt{\frac{2W}{\rho_\infty S}}\frac{C_L^{1/2}}{C_D}\frac{dW}{W}
\qquad [5.155]
$$

Assuming $c_t$, $\rho_\infty$, $S$, and $C_L^{1/2}/C_D$ are constant, Eq. (5.155) can be written as

$$
R = \frac{1}{c_t}\sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty S}}\frac{C_L^{1/2}}{C_D}\int_{W_1}^{W_0}\frac{dW}{W^{1/2}}
$$