# 5.14.2 Endurance for Jet-Propelled Airplanes

Equation (5.167) is already expressed in terms of thrust specific fuel consumption, and it gives the endurance for a jet-propelled airplane directly. We repeat Eq. (5.167) for convenience:

$$
E=\frac{1}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\ln\frac{W_0}{W_1}
$$

$$
[5.167]
$$

Note from Eq. (5.167) that maximum endurance for a jet-propelled airplane corresponds to the following conditions:

1. Fly at maximum $L/D$.
2. Have the lowest possible thrust specific fuel consumption.
3. Have the highest possible ratio of $W_0$ to $W_1$ (i.e., carry a lot of fuel).

The flight conditions associated with maximum $L/D$ have already been discussed at length in Section 5.4.1, and repeated in Section 5.13.1. Hence, they will not be repeated below.

Estimate the maximum endurance for the Gulfstream IV, using the pertinent data from previous examples. **Example 5.20**

**Solution**  
From the data given in Example 5.19, the fuel weight is 29,500 lb and the specific fuel consumption is 0.69 lb of fuel consumed per hour per pound of thrust, which in consistent units gives $c_t = 1.917 \times 10^{-4}\ \mathrm{s}^{-1}$. From Example 5.4, the maximum value of $L/D$ is 14.43. From Eq. (5.167),

$$
E=\frac{1}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\ln\frac{W_0}{W_1}
=\frac{1}{1.917\times 10^{-4}}\,14.42\ln\frac{73{,}000}{43{,}500}
=38{,}969\ \mathrm{s}
$$

In units of hours,

$$
E=\frac{38{,}969}{3{,}600}=10.8\ \mathrm{h}
$$

# 5.15 RANGE AND ENDURANCE: A SUMMARY AND SOME GENERAL THOUGHTS

A rather detailed discussion of range and endurance has been given in Sections 5.13 and 5.14, respectively. It will be helpful to now step back from these details for a moment and to look at the more general picture. This is the purpose of this section.