440

PART 3 $\bullet$ Airplane Design

$$
AR_{\mathrm{VT}}=\frac{(h_{\mathrm{VT}})^2}{S_{\mathrm{VT}}}
\qquad [8.69]
$$

We will choose an aspect ratio of 1.5. Thus, from Eq. (8.69)

$$
h_{\mathrm{VT}}=\sqrt{(AR_{\mathrm{VT}})S_{\mathrm{VT}}}=\sqrt{(1.5)(15.5)}=4.82\ \mathrm{ft}
$$

Consistent with our choice for the wing and horizontal tail, we choose a taper ratio of 0.5 for the vertical tail. Hence, the root chord is [see Eq. (8.55)]

$$
c_{rvt}=\frac{2S_{\mathrm{VT}}}{(\lambda+1)(h_{\mathrm{VT}})}=\frac{2(15.5)}{(0.5+1)(4.82)}=4.28\ \mathrm{ft}
$$

The tip chord is

$$
c_{tvt}=\lambda c_{rvt}=0.5(4.28)=2.14\ \mathrm{ft}
$$

The vertical location of the mean aerodynamic chord of the vertical tail, referenced to the root chord, is [see Eq. (8.57)].

$$
\bar{z}_{\mathrm{VT}}=\frac{2h_{vt}}{6}\frac{1+2\lambda}{1+\lambda}=\frac{2(4.82)}{6}\frac{1+1}{1.5}=2.14\ \mathrm{ft}
$$

The mean aerodynamic chord for the vertical tail is [see Eq. (8.58)]

$$
\bar{c}_{\mathrm{VT}}=\frac{2}{3}c_{rvt}\frac{1+\lambda+\lambda^2}{1+\lambda}=\frac{2}{3}(4.28)\frac{1.75}{1.5}=3.32\ \mathrm{ft}
$$

This allows us to lay out the vertical tail, as shown in Fig. 8.22b.

## 8.6.6 Propeller Size

At this stage, we are not concerned with the details of the propeller design—the blade shape, twist, airfoil section, etc. Indeed, for a general aviation airplane of our design type, the propeller would be bought off the shelf from a propeller manufacturer. However, for the configuration layout, we need to establish the propeller diameter, because that will dictate the length (hence weight) of the landing gear.

The function of the propeller is to take the shaft power from the reciprocating engine and turn it into thrust power to propel the airplane forward. This is never accomplished without some losses, hence the propeller efficiency $\eta_{pr}$ is always less than unity.

$$
\eta_{pr}=\frac{\text{thrust power}}{\text{shaft power}}=\frac{TV_{\infty}}{\mathcal{P}}<1
\qquad [8.70]
$$

Propeller efficiency is improved as the diameter of the propeller gets larger. The reason for this can be found in the discussion of propulsive efficiency in Section 3.2. Essentially, the larger the propeller diameter, the larger the mass flow of air processed by the propeller. Therefore, for the same thrust, the larger propeller requires a smaller flow velocity increase across the propeller disk. The smaller the increase in flow velocity across any propulsive device, the higher the propulsive efficiency.