CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

463

The Wrights did not go through pivot points 5, 6, and 7 in Fig. 7.3—they felt they did not have to. They had confidence that they had designed a machine that would do the job, that would fly. With the conceptual design finished, the Wrights essentially truncated the processes of preliminary and detailed design (as defined in Chapter 7) by carrying out the fabrication of the machine themselves, hand-crafting the individual parts to their satisfaction. The rest is history, made on the sand dunes of Kill Devil Hills on December 17, 1903, when, indeed, their machine did fly.

Wilbur and Orville Wright designed the first successful airplane. In so doing, without realizing it consciously, they followed the design philosophy discussed in Chapter 7. This design philosophy is basically innate. It was followed by the Wrights because it was simply the natural approach to take. However, the Wrights were consummate aeronautical engineers. What was natural for them was not always natural for others; the plethora of homespun airplane designs that followed during the next decade were not all products of the design philosophy we have set forth. However, by the end of World War I, aeronautical engineering had come into its own, and virtually all airplanes designed since then have embodied the design philosophy discussed in Chapter 7. The case history described in the next section is a perfect example.

## 8.11 DESIGN CASE STUDY: THE DOUGLAS DC-3

The genesis of many airplane designs is competition. So it was in 1932, when Boeing was putting the final touches to the prototype of its 247 airliner—a pioneering, low-wing monoplane, all metal, with twin engines wrapped in the new NACA low-drag cowling and with retractable landing gear. The Boeing 247 carried 10 passengers in a soundproof cabin at speeds near 200 mi/h. This airplane was expected to revolutionize commercial air travel. Because of this, the airlines were standing in line for orders. However, Boeing at that time was a member of the United Aircraft Group, which included Pratt & Whitney Engines and United Airlines. Hence, United Airlines was first in line, and was programmed to receive the first 70 new 247s to come off the production line. This put the other airlines in an untenable competitive position.

Because of this, on August 5, 1932, Donald W. Douglas, president of Douglas Aircraft Corporation, received a letter from Transcontinental and Western Air, Inc. (TWA). Dated August 2, the same letter had been sent to Glenn Martin Company in Baltimore and Curtiss-Wright Corporation in St. Louis as well as to Douglas in Santa Monica. A facsimile of the letter to Douglas, signed by Jack Frye, a vice president of TWA, is shown in Fig. 8.33. Frye was inquiring about Douglas's interest in designing a new commercial transport airplane; since TWA could not readily obtain the new Boeing 247, then in an aggressive fashion they went after their own state-of-the-art airplane. Attached to Frye's letter was a one-page list of general performance specifications for the new airplane; this list is reproduced in Fig. 8.34. [Recall that the U.S. Army's list of specifications that led to the purchase of the Wright *Military Flyer* (see Fig. 7.5) was also one page long; clearly, 25 years later airplane specifications could still be given in a short, concise, clear-cut manner.] The specifications given by TWA and shown in Fig. 8.34 illustrate for the case of the DC-3 the first step in