160

PART I • Preliminary Considerations

In summary, we have explained why the curve of $\eta_{pr}$ versus $J$ first increases as $J$ is increased, then peaks at a value $(\eta_{pr})_{\max}$, and finally decreases abruptly. This is why the propeller efficiency curves shown in Figs. 3.7 and 3.8a look the way they do.

In Section 1.2.3, we mentioned that a technical milestone of the era of the mature propeller-driven airplane was the development of the variable-pitch propeller, and subsequently the constant-speed propeller. Please return to Section 1.2.3, and review the discussion surrounding these propeller developments. This review will help you to better understand and appreciate the next two paragraphs.

For fixed-pitch propellers, which were used exclusively on all airplanes until the early 1930s, the maximum $\eta_{pr}$ is achieved at a specific value of $J$ (hence a specific value of $V_\infty$). This value of $J$ was considered the design point for the propeller, and it could correspond to the cruise velocity, or velocity for maximum rate of climb, or whatever condition the airplane designer considered most important. However, whenever $V_\infty$ was different from the design speed, $\eta_{pr}$ decreased precipitously, as reflected in Fig. 3.8a. The off-design performance of a fixed-pitch propeller caused a degradation of the overall airplane performance that became unacceptable to airplane designers in the 1930s. However, the solution to this problem is contained in the data shown in Fig. 3.7, where we see that maximum $\eta_{pr}$ for different pitch angles occurs at different values of $J$. Indeed, for the propeller data shown in Fig. 3.7, the locus of the points for maximum $\eta_{pr}$ forms a relatively flat envelope over a large range of $J$ (hence $V_\infty$), at a value of approximately $(\eta_{pr})_{\max} = 0.85$. Clearly, if the pitch of the propeller could be changed by the pilot during flight so as to ride along this flat envelope, then high propeller efficiency could be achieved over a wide range of $V_\infty$. Thus, the *variable-pitch propeller* was born; here the entire propeller blade is rotated by a mechanical mechanism located in the propeller hub, and the degree of rotation is controlled by the pilot during flight. The improvement in off-design propeller performance brought about by the variable-pitch propeller was so compelling that this design feature is ranked as one of the major aeronautical technical advances of the 1930s.

However, the variable-pitch propeller per se was not the final answer to propeller design during the era of the mature propeller-driven airplane; rather, an improvisation called the *constant-speed propeller* eventually supplanted the variable-pitch propeller in most high-performance propeller-driven airplanes. To understand the technical merit of a constant-speed propeller, first return to Eq. (3.13). The power available from a reciprocating engine/propeller combination depends not only on propeller efficiency $\eta_{pr}$, but also on the shaft power $P$ coming from the engine. In turn, $P$ is directly proportional to the rotational speed (rpm) of the engine, as shown in Eq. (3.9). For a given throttle setting, the rpm of a piston engine depends on the load on the crankshaft. (For example, in your automobile, with the gas pedal depressed a fixed amount, the engine rpm actually slows down when you start climbing a hill, and hence your automobile starts to slow down; the load on the engine while climbing the hill is increased, and hence the engine rpm decreases for a fixed throttle setting.) For an airplane, the load on the shaft of the piston engine comes from the aerodynamic torque created on the propeller; this torque is generated by the component of aerodynamic force exerted on the propeller in the plane of rotation, acting through a moment arm