CHAPTER 2 • Aerodynamics of the Airplane: The Drag Polar 141

From that time on to the present, all such diagrams have been called drag polars in the aerodynamic literature.

Eiffel contributed much more to the discipline of aerodynamics than that discussed above. For example, he designed a style of subsonic wind tunnel called the *Eiffel-type tunnel*; Eiffel-type tunnels are still widely used all across the world. He designed and tested airfoils; many of the French-built World War I airplanes used Eiffel airfoils. Eiffel continued an intensive program of aerodynamic research and development throughout the war and until his death in 1923 at the age of 91. For unexplained reasons, the fact that the builder of the Eiffel Tower was also the leading aerodynamicist in France during the period from 1902 to 1923 has become almost forgotten by modern aerodynamicists. Yet this intellectually powerful man contributed greatly to the historical development of aerodynamics after the turn of the century, and his legacy lives on in the way we do business in modern aerodynamics, especially in regard to experimental aerodynamics. For an extensive discussion of Eiffel and his contributions to aerodynamics, see Ref. 8.

## 2.11 SUMMARY

This has been a chapter on applied aerodynamics—aerodynamic concepts, formulas, and data to be applied to our discussions of airplane performance and design in subsequent chapters. Even though we have limited ourselves to applications of aerodynamics, we still have covered a wide range of topics. We have concentrated on the following aspects:

1. The sources of any aerodynamic force and moment on a body are the surface pressure distribution and the surface skin-friction distribution, integrated over the complete exposed surface of the body. Pressure distribution and skin-friction distribution—these are the two hands nature uses to reach out and grab a moving body immersed in a fluid.

2. Dimensionless coefficients are used to quantify these forces and moments. For a given shaped body, the lift, drag, and moment coefficients are functions of the angle of attack, Mach number, and Reynolds number. The question as to *how* $C_L$, $C_D$, and $C_M$ vary with $\alpha$, $M_\infty$, and Re was examined.

3. There exists an aerodynamic center on a body, that is, that point about which moments may be finite, but do not vary with angle of attack. We set up a short procedure for calculating the location of the aerodynamic center.

4. There is an existing body of airfoil nomenclature. We looked at it and explained it.

5. Lift and drag on an airplane can be viewed as built up from those on various parts of the airplane—wing, fuselage, etc. However, the total lift and drag are *not* equal to the sum of the parts, due to aerodynamic interference effects.

6. Wing aerodynamics is a function of the wing shape. High-aspect-ratio straight wing, high-aspect-ratio swept wing, low-aspect-ratio wing, and a delta wing were the typical planform shapes considered here.