# CHAPTER 5 • Airplane Performance: Steady Flight

are different for propeller-driven and jet-propelled airplanes. Let us consider these matters in more detail.

From Eq. (5.145),

$$
\frac{dW_f}{dt}=-c_tT
$$

or

$$
dt=-\frac{dW_f}{c_tT}
\qquad\text{[5.164]}
$$

Since $T=D$ and $L=W$ in steady, level flight, Eq. (5.164) can be written as

$$
dt=-\frac{dW_f}{c_tD}=-\frac{L}{D}\frac{1}{c_t}\frac{dW_f}{W}
\qquad\text{[5.165]}
$$

Integrating Eq. (5.165) from $t=0$, where $W=W_0$, to $t=E$, where $W=W_1$, we have

$$
E=-\int_{W_0}^{W_1}\frac{1}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\frac{dW_f}{W}
=\int_{W_1}^{W_0}\frac{1}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\frac{dW_f}{W}
\qquad\text{[5.166]}
$$

Equation (5.166) is the general equation for the endurance $E$ of an airplane. If the detailed variations of $c_t$, $L/D$, and $W$ are known throughout the flight, Eq. (5.166) can be numerically integrated to obtain an exact result for the endurance.

For preliminary performance analysis, Eq. (5.166) is usually simplified. If we assume flight at constant $c_t$ and $L/D$, Eq. (5.166) becomes

$$
E=\frac{1}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\int_{W_1}^{W_0}\frac{dW_f}{W}
$$

or

$$
E=\frac{1}{c_t}\frac{L}{D}\ln\frac{W_0}{W_1}
\qquad\text{[5.167]}
$$

Let us consider the individual cases of propeller-driven and jet-propelled aircraft.

## 5.14.1 Endurance for Propeller-Driven Airplanes

The specific fuel consumption for propeller-driven airplanes is given in terms of power rather than thrust. From Eq. (3.43), the relation between $c$ and $c_t$ is

$$
c_t=\frac{cV_\infty}{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}
$$

Substituting this relation into Eq. (5.166), we have

$$
E=\int_{W_1}^{W_0}\frac{\eta_{\mathrm{pr}}}{cV_\infty}\frac{C_L}{C_D}\frac{dW_f}{W}
$$