290

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## DESIGN CAMEO

The answer from Problem 5.23, taking into account the velocity variation of $T_A$, gives for the absolute ceiling a value of 43,760 ft. This is considerably lower than the value of 70,000 ft calculated in Example 5.16. This is yet another graphical demonstration of the need to properly account for the velocity variation of $T_A$ in the preliminary design of turbofan-powered airplanes.

## 5.12 TIME TO CLIMB

The rate of climb, by definition, is the vertical component of the airplane's velocity, which is simply the time rate of change of altitude $dh/dt$. Hence,

$$
\frac{dh}{dt} = R/C
$$

or

$$
dt = \frac{dh}{R/C}
$$

[5.135]

In Eq. (5.135), $R/C$ is a function of altitude, and $dt$ is the small increment in time required to climb the small height $dh$ at a given instantaneous altitude. The time to climb from one altitude $h_1$ to another $h_2$ is obtained by integrating Eq. (5.135) between the two altitudes:

$$
t = \int_{h_1}^{h_2} \frac{dh}{R/C}
$$

[5.136]

Normally, the performance characteristic labeled *time to climb* is considered from sea level, where $h_1 = 0$. Hence, the time to climb from sea level to any given altitude $h_2$ is, from Eq. (5.136),

$$
t = \int_{0}^{h_2} \frac{dh}{R/C}
$$

[5.137]

If in Eq. (5.137) the maximum rate of climb is used at each altitude, then $t$ becomes the minimum time to climb to altitude $h_2$.

$$
t_{\min} = \int_{0}^{h_2} \frac{dh}{(R/C)_{\max}}
$$

[5.138]

### 5.12.1 Graphical Approach

Consider a plot of $(R/C)^{-1}$ versus altitude, as shown in Fig. 5.46. The time to climb to altitude $h_2$ is simply the area under the curve, shown by the shaded area in Fig. 5.46.