264

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## Example 5.12

Calculate the minimum velocity of the Gulfstream IV at sea level based on $(a)$ the low-speed intersection of the thrust available and the thrust required curves and $(b)$ the stalling velocity. This airplane is equipped with single-slotted Fowler trailing-edge flaps. The wing sweep angle is $27^\circ 40'$.

### Solution

$(a)$ The minimum velocity based on the low-speed intersection of the thrust available and thrust required curves (point 3 in Fig. 5.15) can be obtained from Eq. (5.18) by using the minus sign in the numerator, that is,

$$
V_{\min}=\left[\frac{(T/W)(W/S)-(W/S)\sqrt{(T/W)^2-4C_{D,0}K}}{\rho_\infty C_{D,0}}\right]^{1/2}
$$

In the above equation, from the data for the Gulfstream IV given in Example 5.6, namely, $W/S = 76.84 \ \text{lb/ft}^2$, $T/W = 0.3795$, $C_{D,0} = 0.015$, $K = 0.08$, and $\rho_\infty = 0.002377 \ \text{slug/ft}^3$, we have

$$
V_{\min}=\left[\frac{0.3795(76.84)-76.84\sqrt{(0.3795)^2-4(0.015)(0.08)}}{0.002377(0.015)}\right]^{1/2}=117 \ \text{ft/s}
$$

$(b)$ From Eq. (5.67),

$$
V_{\text{stall}}=\sqrt{\frac{2}{\rho_\infty}\frac{W}{S}\frac{1}{(C_L)_{\max}}}
$$

From Table 5.3, for a single-slotted Fowler flap in its most fully deployed configuration (that for landing), we choose

$$
\frac{(C_L)_{\max}}{\cos\Lambda}=2.7
$$

Hence,

$$
(C_L)_{\max}=2.7\cos 27^\circ 40'=2.39
$$

Thus,

$$
V_{\text{stall}}=\sqrt{\frac{(2)(76.84)}{(0.002377)(2.39)}}=164.5 \ \text{ft/s}
$$

Clearly, the stalling velocity defines the minimum velocity for the Gulfstream IV in steady, level flight. The velocity calculated for the low-speed intersection of the $T_A$ and $T_R$ curves, namely, $117 \ \text{ft/s}$, is of academic interest only.

It is interesting to note that the stalling velocity for the actual Gulfstream IV is given as $182 \ \text{ft/s}$ in Ref. 36. This value is quoted for both wheels and flaps down, and for a maximum landing weight of 58,500 lb. This weight is less than the maximum takeoff weight of 73,000 lb, which was the value of $W$ used in the present worked example. In any event, our calculation of $V_{\text{stall}} = 164.5 \ \text{ft/s}$ is a reasonable approximation.