164

PART 1 • Preliminary Considerations

shown in Fig. 3.10e. However, by the time the nozzle exit is reached (point 6), the *net* accumulated thrust $F_{\text{net}}$ is still a positive value, as shown in Fig. 3.10e. This is the net thrust produced by the engine, that is, $T = F_{\text{net}}$. A more diagrammatic illustration of the thrust distribution exerted on a turbojet is shown in Fig. 3.10f.

The detailed calculation of the pressure and shear stress distributions over the complete internal surface of the engine would be a herculean task, even in the present day of the sophisticated computational fluid dynamics (CFD), (See Ref. 39 for an introductory book on CFD, written for beginners in the subject). However, the major jet engine manufacturers are developing the CFD expertise that will eventually allow such a calculation. Fortunately, the calculation of jet engine thrust is carried out infinitely more simply by drawing a control volume around the engine, looking at the time rate of change of momentum of the gas flow through the engine, and using Newton's second law to obtain the thrust. To a certain extent, we have already carried out this control volume analysis in Section 3.2, obtaining Eq. (3.1) for the thrust. However, in that derivation we simplified the analysis by not including the pressure acting on the front and back free surfaces of the control volume, and by not considering the extra mass due to the fuel added. A more detailed derivation (see, e.g., chapter 9 of Ref. 3) leads to a thrust equation which is slightly more refined than Eq. (3.1), namely,

$$
T = (\dot{m}_{\text{air}} + \dot{m}_{\text{fuel}})V_j - \dot{m}_{\text{air}}V_\infty + (p_e - p_\infty)A_e
\qquad [3.16]
$$

where $\dot{m}_{\text{air}}$ and $\dot{m}_{\text{fuel}}$ are the mass flows of the air and fuel, respectively, $p_e$ is the gas pressure at the exit of the nozzle, $p_\infty$ is the ambient pressure, and $A_e$ is the exit area of the nozzle. The first two terms on the right side of Eq. (3.16) are the time rate of change of momentum of the gas as it flows through the engine; these terms play the same role as the right-hand side of Eq. (3.1). The pressure term $(p_e - p_\infty)A_e$ in Eq. (3.16) is usually much smaller than the momentum terms. As a first approximation, it can be neglected, just as we did in obtaining Eq. (3.1).

A typical turbojet engine is shown in the photograph in Fig. 3.11. A cutaway drawing of a turbojet is given in Fig. 3.12, showing the details of the compressor, burner, turbine, and nozzle.

The specific fuel consumption for a turbojet is defined differently than that for a reciprocating piston engine given by Eq. (3.10). The measurable primary output from a jet engine is thrust, whereas that for a piston engine is power. Therefore, for a turbojet the specific fuel consumption is based on thrust rather than power; to make this clear, it is frequently called the *thrust specific fuel consumption*. We denote it by $c_t$, and it is defined as

$$
c_t = \text{weight of fuel burned per unit thrust per unit time}
$$

or

$$
c_t = \frac{\text{weight of fuel consumed for given time increment}}{(\text{thrust output})\ (\text{time increment})}
\qquad [3.17]
$$