# CHAPTER 8 • Design of a Propeller-Driven Airplane

Inserting the value of $W_5/W_0$ from Eq. (8.19) into Eq. (8.8), we have

$$
\frac{W_f}{W_0} = 1.06\left(1 - \frac{W_5}{W_0}\right) = 1.06(1 - 0.85)
$$

or

$$
\frac{W_f}{W_0} = 0.159
\qquad\qquad [8.20]
$$

## 8.3.3 Calculation of $W_0$

Return to Eq. (8.4) for the design takeoff gross weight $W_0$. We have obtained a value for $W_e/W_0$ given by Eq. (8.5). We have also obtained a value for $W_f/W_0$ given by Eq. (8.20). All we need to obtain $W_0$ from Eq. (8.4) are values for the crew and payload weights $W_{\text{crew}}$ and $W_{\text{payload}}$, respectively.

Corning (Ref. 55) suggests the average passenger weight of 160 lb, plus 40 lb of baggage per passenger. A more recent source is Raymer (Ref. 25) who suggests an average passenger weight of 180 lb (dressed and with carry-on bags), plus 40 to 60 lb of baggage per person in the cargo hold. For our airplane, there are five passengers and one pilot, six people in total. Let us assume the average weight per person is 170 lb. Hence, since the only crew is the pilot, we assume

$$
W_{\text{crew}} = 170\ \text{lb}
\qquad\qquad [8.21]
$$

The payload is the five passengers, plus the baggage for all six people. The type of short business trip for which this airplane will most likely be used would require less baggage than a longer, intercontinental trip. Hence, it is reasonable to assume 20 lb of baggage per person rather than the 40 lb mentioned above. Thus, including the pilot's baggage, we have

$$
W_{\text{payload}} = 5(170) + 6(20) = 970\ \text{lb}
\qquad\qquad [8.22]
$$

Inserting the values from Eqs. (8.5) and (8.20) to (8.22) into Eq. (8.4), we have

$$
W_0 = \frac{W_{\text{crew}} + W_{\text{payload}}}{1 - W_f/W_0 - W_e/W_0}
= \frac{170 + 970}{1 - 0.159 - 0.62}
$$

$$
= \frac{1,140}{0.221} = 1,140(4.525) = 5,158\ \text{lb}
\qquad\qquad [8.23]
$$

This is our first estimate of the gross weight of the airplane. We have now completed pivot point 2 in Fig. 7.3.

*Important comment.* The calculation in Eq. (8.23) clearly shows the amplified impact of crew and payload weight on the gross weight of the airplane. The amplification factor is 4.525; that is, for every increase of 1 lb of payload weight, the airplane's gross weight increases by 4.525 lb. For example, if we had allowed each person 40 lb of baggage rather than the 20 lb we chose, the design gross weight of the airplane would have increased by $(6)(20)(4.525) = 543$ lb, that is, more than a