# CHAPTER 9  •  Design of Jet-Propelled Airplanes

521

airplane shown in Fig. 9.27, we see for supersonic jets a trend of decreasing $W_e/W_0$ as $W_0$ increases. The dashed line in Fig. 9.31 is faired through the data; of course, the usual scatter exists in the data. The YF-16 designers had these data available; most of the airplanes noted in Fig. 9.31 had been designed before the start of the YF-16, with the exception, of course, of the F-16 data point at the left. It is interesting to note that the resulting $W_e/W_0$ for the final F-16 design falls right on the dashed curve. Also, the General Dynamics designers accomplished a relatively lightweight design as specified; the F-16 is the most lightweight supersonic airplane shown in Fig. 9.31. The estimation of $W_0$ for the start of the conceptual design process follows that discussed in Section 8.3, recognizing that, because $W_e/W_0$ is a function of $W_0$, an iterative process is required to obtain $W_0$.

The particular emphasis on light weight and small size for the F-16 design was driven by the following considerations:

1. The smaller (size) and lighter (weight) for a fixed engine size (fixed thrust), the greater the maneuverability of the airplane. This can be seen in the discussion and equations in Section 6.2, where the turn radius is shown to decrease and the turn rate is shown to increase when the load factor is increased. For a steady, level turn, the maximum allowable load factor expressed by Eq. (6.18) increases with an increase in $(T/W)_{\max}$, which is made larger by making the weight smaller. Also, in terms of energy considerations for accelerated performance, by reducing the size and weight, the specific excess power, given by Eq. (6.59), is increased.

2. The smaller the size, the smaller the total cost of producing the airplane.

3. The smaller the size, the smaller the radar cross section for detection.

The third item, dealing with reducing radar detectability, was becoming an increasingly important aspect for military airplane design in the 1960s. The aspect of stealth was beginning to take hold. We will see more of this in the ensuing sections.

Analytical studies supporting the conceptual design of the F-16 were carried out during the period beginning in late 1970, and into 1971. According to Buckner et al. (Ref. 66): “For the first time a realistic combat task was defined as part of the mission rules allowing combat performance to be a primary force equal to cruise range in the configuration design optimization process.” In other words, the critical performance parameters representing pivot point 3 in Fig. 7.3 were dictated primarily by the accelerated performance criteria of maximum turn rate, minimum turn radius, and specific excess power rather than more conventional criteria such as takeoff length, range, etc. In particular, the wing shape and size were dictated by weight and accelerated performance. The wing shape and size are defined by wing loading $W/S$, aspect ratio $AR$, sweep angle $\Lambda$, taper ratio $\lambda$, and airfoil shape and thickness-to-chord ratio $t/c$.

Results from a parametric study using these wing characteristics are shown in Figs. 9.32 and 9.33. In both these figures, a baseline wing is defined with $W/S = 60$ lb/ft$^2$, $AR = 3$, $\Lambda = 35^\circ$, $\lambda = 0.2$, and $t/c = 0.04$. In Fig. 9.32, the weight of the airplane at start of combat, normalized by that for the baseline wing, is plotted as a function of the five wing parameters. When these curves dip below unity, the weight at start of combat is less than the baseline value; and when the curves exceed unity,