314

PART 2 • Airplane Performance

## 5.16 SUMMARY

By definition, the static performance analysis of an airplane assumes rectilinear motion with no acceleration. The material in this chapter provides the basis for a preliminary static performance analysis.

A few of the important aspects of this chapter are listed below. As you read through this list, if any items are unclear or uncertain to you, return to the pertinent section in the chapter and review the material until you are comfortable.

1. For steady, level flight, the equations of motion are the simple equilibrium relations

$$
T = D
$$

[5.3]

$$
L = W
$$

[5.4]

2. The basic aerodynamics needed for a performance analysis is the drag polar.

$$
C_D = C_{D,0} + K C_L^2
$$

[5.5]

3. A *thrust required curve* is a plot of $T_R = D$ versus velocity for a given airplane at a given altitude. A *thrust available curve* is a plot of $T_A$ versus velocity for a given airplane at a given altitude. The high-speed intersection of the maximum thrust available and thrust required curves determines the maximum velocity of the airplane. Thrust required is inversely proportional to the lift-to-drag ratio

$$
T_R = \frac{W}{L/D}
$$

[5.7]

4. The design parameters $T_R/W$ and $W/S$ play a strong role in airplane performance. An analytical expression for the resulting airplane velocity for a given $T_R/W$ and $W/S$ is

$$
V_\infty = \left[ \frac{(T_R/W)(W/S) \pm (W/S)\sqrt{(T_R/W)^2 - 4C_{D,0}K}}{\rho_\infty C_{D,0}} \right]^{1/2}
$$

[5.18]

5. A *power required curve* is a plot of $P_R$ versus velocity for a given airplane at a given altitude. A *power available curve* is a plot of $P_A$ versus velocity for a given airplane at a given altitude. The high-speed intersection of the maximum power available and the power required curves determines the maximum velocity of the airplane. The power required is inversely proportional to $C_L^{3/2}/C_D$

$$
P_R = \sqrt{\frac{2W^3C_D^2}{\rho_\infty SC_L^3}} \propto \frac{1}{C_L^{3/2}/C_D}
$$

[5.86]

6. The following aerodynamic relations are important for a static performance analysis.