528

PART 3 • Airplane Design

until 1975, and Ben Rich between 1975 and 1991, both legendary men in their own right, the Skunk Works became perhaps the most elite and pioneering airplane design group in history, with the single exception of the Wright brothers. The interesting, indeed, riveting story of the Skunk Works can be found in the autobiographical books by Johnson and Smith (Ref. 67) and by Rich and Janos (Ref. 68).

One of the basic aspects of the design philosophy discussed in Chapter 7—that in the design of a new airplane much preliminary information can be obtained from the characteristics of previous airplanes—was dashed by the design of the Blackbird. There simply was no previous airplane that could serve as guidance for the Blackbird—the desired flight characteristics were so far advanced beyond those of any other aircraft. In Kelly Johnson's words (Ref. 19): “I believe I can truly say that everything on the aircraft from rivets and fluids, up through materials and power plants had to be invented from scratch.” The design experience associated with the Blackbird was later elegantly stated by Rich and Janos (Ref. 68):

The Blackbird, which dominated our work in the sixties, was the greatest high-performance airplane of the twentieth century. Everything about this airplane's creation was gigantic: the technical problems that had to be overcome, the political complexities surrounding its funding, even the ability of the Air Force's most skilled pilots to master this incredible wild horse of the stratosphere. Kelly Johnson rightly regarded the Blackbird as the crowning triumph of his years at the Skunk Works' helm. All of us who shared in its creation wear a badge of special pride. Nothing designed and built by any other aerospace operation in the world, before or since the Blackbird, can begin to rival its speed, height, effectiveness, and impact. Had we built Blackbird in the year 2010, the world would still have been awed by such an achievement. But the first model, designed and built for the CIA as the successor to the U-2, was being test-flown as early as 1962. Even today, that fact seems nothing less than miraculous.

The design concept for the Blackbird stemmed from an earlier study of a hydrogen-fueled high-speed spy plane by the Skunk Works in the late 1950s. The brainchild of Kelly Johnson, this airplane was to fly above 100,000 ft at greater than Mach 2. The problems associated with using hydrogen proved to be insurmountable—the airplane was essentially a flying fuel tank, and even so it could not achieve the desired range because the predicted $L/D$ ratio was 16% less than required. Johnson personally canceled the design activity on the hydrogen-fueled airplane. However, in April 1958, this effort metamorphosed into a related, but distinctly different airplane—one that used conventional fuels and conventional engines, but could fly faster and higher than any Russian missile. Since the Skunk Works had designed the Lockheed F-104, the first fighter airplane capable of sustained flight at Mach 2, a Mach 3 airplane flying at 90,000 ft seemed like a logical extension. The first preliminary design was labeled the A-1 for internal Lockheed reference. Twelve designs later, the A-12 appeared to be satisfactory to Johnson, and on August 28, 1959, the CIA agreed to purchase five A-12 spy planes. The first flight of the A-12 took place on April 26, 1962. Johnson also pushed a version of the airplane as a high-speed interceptor for the Air Force, which was designated as the YF-12A. The first YF-12A flew on August 7, 1963. The