796  
# Formulas for Stress and Strain

[CHAP. 17

29. Dumont, C.: Stress Concentration Around an Open Circular Hole in a Plate Subjected to Bending Normal to the Plane of the Plate, *NACA Tech. Note 740*, 1939.  
30. Reissner, E.: The Effect of Transverse Shear Deformation on the Bending of Elastic Plates, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 67, 1945.  
31. Isida, M.: On the Bending of an Infinite Strip with an Eccentric Circular Hole, *Proc. 2d Jap. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, 1952.  
32. Sjöström, S.: On the Stresses at the Edge of an Eccentrically Located Circular Hole on a Strip under Tension, *Aeronaut. Res. Inst. Rept. 36*, Sweden, 1950.  
33. Isida, M.: On the Tension of a Strip with a Central Elliptic Hole, *Trans. Jap. Soc. Mech. Eng.*, vol. 21, 1955.  
34. Durelli, A. J., V. J. Parks, and H. C. Feng: Stresses Around an Elliptical Hole in a Finite Plate Subjected to Axial Loading, *ASME J. App 1. Mech.*, vol. 33, no. 1, 1966.  
35. Jones, N., and D. Hozos: A Study of the Stresses Around Elliptical Holes in Flat Plates, *ASME J. Eng. Ind.*, vol. 93, no. 2, 1971.  
36. Isida, M.: Form Factors of a Strip with an Elliptic Hole in Tension and Bending, *Sci. Pap. Fac. Eng., Tokushima Univ.*, vol. 4, 1953.  
37. Frocht, M. M., and M. M. Leven: Factors of Stress Concentration for Slotted Bars in Tension and Bending, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 18, no. 1, 1951.  
38. Brock, J. S.: The Stresses Around Square Holes with Rounded Corners, *J. Ship Res.*, October 1958.  
39. Sobey, A. J.: Stress Concentration Factors for Rounded Rectangular Holes in Infinite Sheets, *Aeronaut. Res. Counc. R&M 3407*, Her Majesty's Stationery Office, 1963.  
40. Heller, S. R., J. S. Brock, and R. Bart: The Stresses Around a Rectangular Opening with Rounded Corners in a Uniformly Loaded Plate, *Proc. U.S. Nat. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, 1958.  
41. Seika, M., and A. Amano: The Maximum Stress in a Wide Plate with a Reinforced Circular Hole under Uniaxial Tension—Effects of a Boss with Fillet, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 34, no. 1, 1967.  
42. Cheng, Y. F.: Stress at Notch Root of Shafts under Axially Symmetric Loading, *Exp. Mech., J. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 10, no. 12, 1970.  
43. Leven, M. M.: Quantitative Three-Dimensional Photoelasticity, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 12, no. 2, 1955.  
44. Rushton, K. R.: Stress Concentrations Arising in the Torsion of Grooved Shafts, *J. Mech. Sci.*, vol. 9, 1967.  
45. Hamada, M., and H. Kitagawa: Elastic Torsion of Circumferentially Grooved Shafts, *Bull. Jap. Soc. Mech. Eng.*, vol. 11, 1968.  
46. Matthews, G. J., and C. J. Hooke: Solution of Axisymmetric Torsion Problems by Point Matching, *J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 6, 1971.  
47. Allison, I. M.: The Elastic Concentration Factors in Shouldered Shafts, Part III: Shafts Subjected to Axial Load, *Aeronaut. Q.*, vol. 13, 1962.  
48. Allison, I. M.: The Elastic Concentration Factors in Shouldered Shafts, Part II: Shafts Subjected to Bending, *Aeronaut. Q.*, vol. 12, 1961.  
49. Allison, I. M.: The Elastic Concentration Factors in Shouldered Shafts, *Aeronaut. Q.*, vol. 12, 1961.  
50. Rushton, K. R.: Elastic Stress Concentrations for the Torsion of Hollow Shouldered Shafts Determined by an Electrical Analogue, *Aeronaut. Q.*, vol. 15, 1964.  
51. Jessop, H. T., C. Snell, and I. M. Allison: The Stress Concentration Factors in Cylindrical Tubes with Transverse Circular Holes, *Aeronaut. Q.*, vol. 10, 1959.  
52. British Engineering Science Data, 65004, Engineering Science Data Unit, London, 1965.  
53. Thum, A., and W. Kirmser: Uberlagerte Wechselbeanspruchungen, ihre Erzeugung und ihr Einfluss auf die Dauerbarkeit und Spannungsausbildung quergebohrten Wellen, *VDI-Forschungsh.* 419, vol. 14b, 1943.  
54. Fessler, H., and E. A. Roberts: Bending Stresses in a Shaft with a Transverse Hole, "Selected Papers on Stress Analyses, Stress Analysis Conference, Delft, 1958," Reinhold, 1961.  
55. Atsumi, A.: Stress Concentrations in a Strip under Tension and Containing an Infinite Row of Semicircular Notches, *Q. J. Mech. Appl. Math.*, vol. 11, pt. 4, 1958.