# Glossary: Definitions

**APP. B]**

**823**

**Shear lag:** Because of shear strain, the longitudinal tensile or compressive bending stresses in wide beam flanges decrease with the distance from the web(s), and this stress reduction is called *shear lag*.

**Simply-supported:** A support condition at the end of a beam or column or at the edge of a plate or shell that prevents *transverse displacement* of the edge of the neutral surface but permits *rotation and longitudinal displacement*. (Compare *Fixed, Guided; Held*.)

**Singularity functions:** A class of mathematical functions that can be used to describe discontinuous behavior using one equation. *Singularity functions* are commonly employed to represent shear forces, bending moments, slopes, and deformations as functions of position for discontinuous loading of beams, plates, and shells. The functions are written using bracket notation as $F_n = \langle x - a \rangle^n$, where $F_n = 0$ for $x \leq a$, and $F_n = (x - a)^n$ for $x > a$. (See Ref. 12.)

**Slenderness ratio:** The ratio of length of a uniform column to the minimum radius of gyration of the cross-section.

**Slip lines (Lüder’s lines):** Lines that appear on the polished surface of a crystal or crystalline body that has been stressed beyond the elastic limit. They represent the intersection of the surface by planes on which shear stress has produced plastic slip (see Sec. 3.5 and Ref. 13).

**Strain:** Any forced change in the dimensions and/or shape of an elastic element. A stretch is a *tensile strain*; a shortening is a *compressive strain*; and an angular distortion is a *shear strain*.

**Strain concentration factor:** Localized peak strains develop in the presence of stress raisers. The strain concentration factor is the ratio of the *localized maximum strain* at a given location to the *nominal average strain* at that location. The nominal average strain is computed from the average stress and a knowledge of the stress–strain behavior of the material. In a situation where all stresses and strains are elastic, the stress and strain concentration factors are equal. (Compare with *Stress concentration factor*.)

**Strain energy:** Mechanical energy stored in a stressed material. Stress within the elastic limit is implied where the strain energy is equal to the work done by the external forces in producing the stress and is recoverable.

**Strain rosette:** At any point on the surface of a stressed body, strains measured along each of three intersecting gage lines make the calculation of the principal stresses possible. The gage lines and the corresponding strains are called *strain rosettes*.