**SEC. 12.2]** **Columns and Other Compression Members** **529**

Rankine formula  
$$
\frac{P/A}{\sigma}=\frac{1}{1+\lambda^2}
$$
for all $\lambda$

Secant formula  
$$
\frac{P/A}{\sigma}=\frac{1}{1+0.25\sec\left(\frac{\pi\lambda}{2}\sqrt{\frac{P/A}{\sigma}}\right)}
$$
for all $\lambda$

The Euler formula becomes $(P/A)/\sigma = 1/\lambda^2$, and both the parabolic and exponential formulas given above have been derived to be tangent to the Euler formulas where they intersect. In the table on the next page are shown the values of $(P/A)/\sigma$ for each of the given equations or sets of equations.

In the case of the secant formula at very short lengths, the lower values can be attributed to the chosen eccentricity ratio of 0.25.

By applying a proper factor of safety a *safe* load can be calculated. Many codes make use of safety factors which vary with the effective $L/r$ ratios, so the safe-load formulas may differ somewhat in form from the ultimate-load formulas just discussed. See Ref. 1 for extensive listings of applicable codes and design specifications.

**Calculation of stress.** The best way to compute the probable value of the maximum fiber stress in a short column, caused by the imposition of a nominally concentric load that is less than the ultimate load, is to use the secant formula [Eq. (12.1-2)] with an assumed value of $e$ or $ec/r^2$. However, by transposing terms, any one of Eqs. (12.1-3)–(12.1-5) can be written so as to give the maximum stress $\sigma$ in terms of the load $P$. Such procedure is logical only when $\sigma$ is the fiber stress at failure and $P$ the ultimate load; but if the maximum stress due to some load that is less than the ultimate load is thus computed, the result, although probably considerably in error, is almost sure to be greater than the true stress and hence the method errs on the side of safety.

## 12.2 Local Buckling

If a column is composed wholly or partially of thin material, local buckling may occur at a unit load less than that required to cause failure of the column as a whole. When such local buckling occurs at a unit stress less than the proportional limit, it represents elastic instability; the critical stress at which this occurs can be determined by mathematical analysis. Formulas for the critical stress at which bars and thin plates exhibit elastic instability, under various conditions of loading and support, are given in Tables 15.1 and 15.2. All such formulas are based upon assumptions as to homogeneity of material, regularity of form, and boundary conditions that are never