# Formulas for Stress and Strain

second; an ultimate elongation of 5% has been suggested as the arbitrary dividing line between the two classes of metals.

A ductile metal is usually considered to have failed when it has suffered *elastic failure*, i.e., when marked plastic deformation has begun. Under simple uniaxial tension this occurs when the stress reaches a value we will denote by $\sigma_{ys}$, which represents the yield strength, yield point, or elastic limit, according to which one of these is the most satisfactory indication of elastic failure for the material in question. The question arises, when does elastic failure occur under other conditions of stress, such as compression, shear, or a combination of tension, compression, and shear?

There are many theories of elastic failure that can be postulated for which the consequences can be seen in the tensile test. When the tensile specimen begins to yield at a tensile stress of $\sigma_{ys}$, the following events occur:

1. *The maximum-principal-stress theory:* the maximum principal stress reaches the tensile yield strength, $\sigma_{ys}$.

2. *The maximum-shear-stress theory* (also called the *Tresca theory*): the maximum shear stress reaches the shear yield strength, $0.5\ \sigma_{ys}$.

3. *The maximum-principal-strain theory:* the maximum principal strain reaches the yield strain, $\sigma_{ys}/E$.

4. *The maximum-strain-energy theory:* the strain energy per unit volume reaches a maximum of $0.5\ \sigma_{ys}^2/E$.

5. The *maximum-distortion-energy theory* (also called the *von Mises theory* and the *Maxwell-Huber-Hencky-von Mises theory*): the energy causing a change in shape (distortion) reaches $[(1+\nu)/(3E)]\sigma_{ys}^2$.

6. *The maximum-octahedral-shear-stress theory:* the shear stress acting on each of eight (octahedral) surfaces containing a hydrostatic normal stress, $\sigma_{ave} = (\sigma_1 + \sigma_2 + \sigma_3)/3$, reaches a value of $\sqrt{2}\sigma_{ys}/3$. It can be shown that this theory yields identical conditions as that provided by the maximum-distortion-energy theory.

Of these six theories, for ductile materials, the fifth and sixth are the ones that agree best with experimental evidence. However, the second leads to results so nearly the same and is simpler and more conservative for design applications. Thus, it is more widely used as a basis for design.

Failure theories for yield of ductile materials are based on shear or distortion. The maximum-distortion-energy theory equates the distortion energy for a general case of stress to the distortion energy when a