# 3.6 Creep and Rupture under Long-Time Loading

should be noted that plastic deformation before rupture is much less for biaxial or triaxial tension than for one-way stress; for this reason metals that are ordinarily ductile may prove brittle when thus stressed.

More materials will creep or flow to some extent and eventually fail under a sustained stress less than the short-time ultimate strength. After a short time at load, the initial creep related to stress redistribution in the structure and strain hardening ceases and the *steady state, or viscous creep,* predominates. The viscous creep will continue until fracture unless the load is reduced sufficiently, but it is seldom important in materials at temperatures less than 40 to 50% of their absolute melting temperatures. Thus, creep and long-time strength at atmospheric temperatures must sometimes be taken into account in designing members of nonferrous metals and in selecting allowable stresses for wood, plastics, and concrete.

**Metals.** Creep is an important consideration in high-pressure steam and distillation equipment, gas turbines, nuclear reactors, supersonic vehicles, etc. Marin, Odqvist, and Finnie, in Ref. 3, give excellent surveys and list references on creep in metals and structures. Conway (Refs. 4 and 5) discusses the effectiveness of various parametric equations, and Conway and Flagella (Ref. 6) present extensive creep-rupture data for the refractory metals. Odqvist (Ref. 7) discusses the theory of creep and its application to large deformation and stability problems in plates, shells, membranes, and beams and tabulates creep constants for 15 common metals and alloys. Hult (Ref. 8) also discusses creep theory and its application to many structural problems. Penny and Marriott (Ref. 9) discuss creep theories and the design of experiments to verify them. They also discuss the development of several metals for increased resistance to creep at high temperatures as well as polymeric and composite materials at lower temperatures. Reference 10 is a series of papers with extensive references covering creep theory, material properties, and structural problems.

**Plastics.** The literature on the behavior of the many plastics being used for structural or machine applications is too extensive to list here.

**Concrete.** Under sustained compressive stress, concrete suffers considerable plastic deformation and may flow for a very long time at stresses less than the ordinary working stress. Continuous flow has