## 12.4] Columns and Other Compression Members 537

where $A_1 =$ cross-sectional area of each diagonal bar and $A_2 =$ cross-sectional area of each transverse bar. For the channel and batten-plate arrangement shown in Fig. 12.1(c),

$$
K=\frac{1}{1+\frac{\pi^2 I}{L^2}\left(\frac{ab}{12I_2}+\frac{a^2}{24I_1}\right)}
$$

(12.3-4)

where $a =$ center-to-center distance between battens; $b =$ length of a batten between rivets; $I_1 =$ moment of inertia of a single-channel section (or any similar section being used for each column leg) about its own centroidal axis normal to the plane of the battens, and $I_2 =$ moment of inertia of a pair of batten plates (that is, $I_2 = 2tc^3/12$, where $t$ is the batten-plate thickness and $c$ is the batten-plate width measured parallel to the length of the column).

In all the preceding expressions for $K$, it is assumed that all parts have the same modulus of elasticity, and only the additional deflection due to longitudinal strain in the lacing bars and to secondary flexure of channels and batten plates is taken into account. For fairly long columns laced over practically the entire length, the values of $K$ given by Eqs. (12.3-1)—(12.3-3) are probably sufficiently accurate. More elaborate formulas for shear deflection, in which direct shear stress in the channels, bending of the end portions of channels between stay plates, and rivet deformation, as well as longitudinal strains in lacing bars, are taken into account, are given in Ref. 8; these should be used when calculating the deflection of a short latticed column under direct transverse loading.

The use of $K$ as a correction factor for obtaining a reduced value of $E$ is convenient in designing long latticed columns; for short columns the correction is best made by replacing $L$ in whatever column formula is selected by $\sqrt{(1/K)}L$.

Several failure modes and the critical loads associated with these modes are discussed in Refs. 11 and 12.

## 12.4 Eccentric Loading; Initial Curvature

When a round-ended column is loaded eccentrically with respect to one of the principal axes of the section (here called axis 1), the formula for the maximum stress produced is

$$
\sigma=\frac{P}{A}\left\{1+\frac{ec}{r^2}\sec\left[\frac{P}{4EA}\left(\frac{L}{r}\right)^2\right]^{1/2}\right\}
$$

(12.4-1)