# Chapter 14

# Bodies under Direct Bearing and Shear Stress

## 14.1 Stress due to Pressure between Elastic Bodies

The stresses caused by the pressure between elastic bodies are of importance in conection with the design or investigation of ball and roller bearings, gears, trunnions, expansion rollers, track stresses, etc. Hertz (Ref. 1) developed the mathematical theory for the surface stresses and deformations produced by pressure between curved bodies, and the results of his analysis are supported by experiment. Formulas based on this theory give the maximum compressive stresses, which occur at the center of the surfaces of contact, but not the maximum shear stresses, which occur in the interiors of the compressed parts, nor the maximum tensile stress, which occurs at the boundary of the contact area and is normal thereto.

Both surface and subsurface stresses were studied by Belajef (Refs. 28 and 29), and some of his results are cited in Ref. 6. A tabulated summary of surface and subsurface stresses, greatly facilitating calculation, is given in Ref. 33. For a cylinder on a plane and for crossed cylinders Thomas and Hoersch (Ref. 2) investigated mathematically surface compression and internal shear and checked the calculated value of the latter experimentally. The stresses due to the pressure of a sphere on a plate (Ref. 3) and of a cylinder on a plate (Ref. 4) have also been investigated by photoelasticity. The deformation and contact area for a ball in a race were measured by Whittemore and Petrenko (Ref. 8) and compared with the theoretical values. Additionally, investigations have considered the influence of tangential loading combined with normal loading (Refs. 35, 47–49, and 58).

In Table 14.1, formulas are given for the elastic stress and deformation produced by pressure between bodies of various forms, and for the

689