# 5.2 The Finite Element Method

discrete equations are solved obtaining the values of the variables at the mesh points. The technique has many disadvantages, including inaccuracies of the derivatives of the approximated solution, difficulties in imposing boundary conditions along curved boundaries, difficulties in accurately representing complex geometric domains, and the inability to utilize non-uniform and non-rectangular meshes.

The finite element method (FEM) evolved from the use of trial functions via variational methods and weighted residuals, the finite difference method, and structural analogues (see Table 1.1 of Ref. 1). FEM overcomes the difficulties encountered by the finite-difference method in that the solution of the differential equations of the structural problem are obtained by utilizing an integral formulation to generate a system of algebraic equations with continuous piecewise-smooth (trial) functions that approximate the unknown quantities. A geometrically complex domain of the structural problem can be systematically represented by a large, but finite, collection of simpler subdomains, called *finite elements*. For structural problems, the displacement field of each element is approximated by polynomials, which are interpolated with respect to preselected points (*nodes*) on, and possibly within, the element. The polynomials are referred to as *interpolation functions*, where variational or weighted residual methods (e.g. Rayleigh–Ritz, Galerkin, etc.) are applied to determine the unknown nodal values. Boundary conditions can easily be applied along curved boundaries, complex geometric domains can be modeled, and non-uniform and non-rectangular meshes can be employed.

The modern development of FEM began in the 1940s in the field of structural mechanics with the work of Hrennikoff, McHenry, and Newmark, who used a lattice of line elements (rods and beams) for the solution of stresses in continuous solids (see Refs. 2–4). In 1943, from a 1941 lecture, Courant suggested piecewise-polynomial interpolation over triangular subregions as a method to model torsional problems (see Ref. 5).

With the advent of digital computers in the 1950s, it became practical for engineers to write and solve the stiffness equations in matrix form (see Refs. 6–8). A classic paper by Turner, Clough, Martin, and Topp published in 1956 presented the matrix stiffness equations for the truss, beam, and other elements (see Ref. 9). The expression *finite element* is first attributed to Clough (see Ref. 10).

Since these early beginnings, a great deal of effort has been expended in the development of FEM in the areas of element formulations and computer implementation of the entire solution process. The major advances in computer technology includes the rapidly expand-