# 4.2 Principle of Superposition

With certain exceptions, the effect (stress, strain, or deflection) produced on an elastic system by any final state of loading is the same whether the forces that constitute that loading are applied simultaneously or in any given sequence and is the result of the effects that the several forces would produce if each acted singly.

An exception to this principle is afforded by any case in which some of the forces cause a deformation that enables other forces to produce an effect they would not have otherwise. A beam subjected to transverse and axial loading is an example; the transverse loads cause a deflection that enables the longitudinal load to produce a bending effect it would not produce if acting alone. In no case does the principle apply if the deformations are so large as to alter appreciably the geometrical relations of the parts of the system.

The principle of superposition is important and has many applications. It often makes it possible to resolve or break down a complex problem into a number of simple ones, each of which can be solved separately for like stresses, deformations, etc., which are then algebraically added to yield the solution of the original problem.

# 4.3 Principle of Reciprocal Deflections

Let $A$ and $B$ be any two points of an elastic system. Let the displacement of $B$ in any direction $U$ due to force $P$ acting in any direction $V$ at $A$ be $u$; and let the displacement of $A$ in the direction $V$ due to a force $Q$ acting in the direction $U$ at $B$ be $v$. Then $Pv = Qu$.

This is the general statement of the *principle of reciprocal deflections*. If $P$ and $Q$ are equal and parallel and $u$ and $v$ are parallel, the statement can be simplified greatly. Thus, for a horizontal beam with vertical loading and deflection understood, the principle expresses the following relation: A load applied at any point $A$ produces the same deflection at any other point $B$ as it would produce at $A$ if applied at $B$.

The principle of reciprocal deflections is a corollary of the principle of superposition and so can be applied only to cases for which that principle is valid. It can be used to advantage in many problems involving deformation. Examples of the application of the principle are given in Chaps. 8 and 11.

# 4.4 Method of Consistent Deformations  
## (Strain Compatibility)

Many statically indeterminate problems are easily solved by utilizing the obvious relations among the deformations of the several parts or among the deformations produced by the several loads. Thus the