554  Formulas for Stress and Strain  [CHAP. 13

loading and the vessel, there will be no tendency for any circumference to depart from the circular form unless buckling occurs.

## 13.2 Thin Shells of Revolution under Distributed Loadings Producing Membrane Stresses Only

If the walls of the vessel are relatively thin (less than about one-tenth the smaller principal radius of curvature) and have no abrupt changes in thickness, slope, or curvature and if the loading is uniformly distributed or smoothly varying and axisymmetric, the stresses $\sigma_1$ and $\sigma_2$ are practically uniform throughout the thickness of the wall and are the only important ones present; the radial stress $\sigma_3$ and such bending stresses as occur are negligibly small. Table 13.1 gives formulas for the stresses and deformations under loadings such as those just described for cylindrical, conical, spherical, and toroidal vessels as well as for general smooth figures of revolution as listed under case 4.

If two thin-walled shells are joined to produce a vessel, and if it is desired to have no bending stresses at the joint under uniformly distributed or smoothly varying loads, then it is necessary to choose shells for which the radial deformations and the rotations of the meridians are the same for each shell at the point of connection. For example, a *cylindrical* shell under uniform internal pressure will have a radial deformation of $qR^2(1 - \nu/2)/Et$ while a *hemispherical* head of equal thickness under the same pressure will have a radial deformation of $qR^2(1 - \nu)/2Et$; the meridian rotation $\psi$ is zero in both cases. This mismatch in radial deformation will produce bending and shear stresses in the near vicinity of the joint. An examination of case 4a (Table 13.1) shows that if $R_1$ is infinite at $\theta = 90^\circ$ for a smooth figure of revolution, the radial deformation and the rotation of the meridian will match those of the cylinder.

Flügge (Ref. 5) points out that the family of *cassinian* curves has the property just described. He also discusses in some detail the *ogival* shells, which have a constant radius of curvature $R_1$ for the meridian but for which $R_2$ is a variable. If $R_2$ is everywhere less than $R_1$, the ogival shell has a pointed top, as shown in Fig. 13.1(*a*). If $R_2$ is infinite, as it is at point $A$ in Fig. 13.1(*b*), the center of the shell must be supported to avoid large bending stresses although some bending stresses are still present in the vicinity of point $A$. For more details of these deviations from membrane action see Refs. 66 and 74-76.

For very thin shells where bending stresses are negligible, a nonlinear membrane theory can provide more realistic values near the crown, point $A$. Rossettos and Sanders have carried out such a solution (Ref. 52). Chou and Johnson (Ref. 57) have examined large