588  Formulas for Stress and Strain  [CHAP. 13]

commonly known as the *mean diameter formula*, is essentially empirical but agrees reasonably well with experiment for both thin and thick cylindrical vessels and is convenient to use. For very thick vessels the formula

$$
q_u=\sigma_u \ln \frac{a}{b}
$$

(13.6-2)

is preferable. Greater accuracy can be obtained by using with this formula a multiplying factor that takes into account the strain-hardening properties of the material (Refs. 10, 20, and 37). With the same objective, Faupel (Ref. 39) proposes (with different notation) the formula

$$
q_u=\frac{2\sigma_y}{\sqrt{3}}\left(2-\frac{\sigma_y}{\sigma_u}\right)\ln\frac{a}{b}
$$

(13.6-3)

A rather extensive discussion of bursting pressure is given in Ref. 38, which presents a tabulated comparison between bursting pressures as calculated by a number of different formulas and as determined by actual experiment.

## EXAMPLE

At the powder chamber, the inner radius of a 3-in gun tube is 1.605 in and the outer radius is 2.425 in. It is desired to shrink a jacket on this tube to produce a radial pressure between the tube and jacket of 7600 lb/in$^2$. The outer radius of this jacket is 3.850 in. It is required to determine the difference between the inner radius of the jacket and the outer radius of the tube in order to produce the desired pressure, calculate the stresses in each part when assembled, and calculate the stresses in each part when the gun is fired, generating a powder pressure of 32,000 lb/in$^2$.

**Solution.** Using the formulas for Table 13.5, case 1c, it is found that for an external pressure of 7600 lb/in$^2$, the stress $\sigma_2$ at the outer surface of the tube is $-19{,}430$ lb/in$^2$, the stress $\sigma_2$ at the inner surface is $-27{,}050$ lb/in$^2$, and the change in outer radius $\Delta a=-0.001385$ in; for an internal pressure of 7600 lb/in$^2$, the stress $\sigma_2$ at the inner surface of the jacket is $+17{,}630$ lb/in$^2$, the stress $\sigma_2$ at the outer surface is $+10{,}050$ lb/in$^2$, and the change in inner radius $\Delta b=+0.001615$ in. (In making these calculations the inner radius of the jacket is assumed to be 2.425 in.) The initial difference between the inner radius of the jacket and the outer radius of the tube must be equal to the sum of the radial deformations they suffer, or $0.001385+0.001615=0.0030$ in; therefore the initial radius of the jacket should be $2.425-0.0030=2.422$ in.

The stresses produced by the powder pressure are calculated at the inner surface of the tube, at the common surface of tube and jacket $(r=2.425 \text{ in})$, and at the outer surface of the jacket. These stresses are then superimposed on