## SEC. 14.2] Bodies under Direct Bearing and Shear Stress 697

radial stresses caused at the hole edges by closing pressure and the buckling of the plates under rivet pressure (Ref. 17).

**Eccentric loading.** When the rivets of a joint are so arranged that the centroid $G$ of the areas of the rivet group lies not on the line of action of the load but at a distance $e$ therefrom, the load $P$ can be replaced by an equal and parallel load $P'$ acting through $G$ and a couple $Pe$. The load on any one of the $n$ rivets is then found by *vectorially* adding the load $P/n$ due to $P'$ and the load $Q$ due to the couple $Pe$. This load $Q$ acts normal to the line from $G$ to the rivet and is given by the equation $Q = PeA_1r_1/J$, where $A_1$ is the area of the rivet in question, $r_1$ is its distance from $G$, and $J = \sum Ar^2$ for all the rivets of the group. When all rivets are of the same size, as is usually the case, the formula becomes $Q = Per_1/\sum r^2$. Charts and tables are available which greatly facilitate the labor of the calculation involved, and which make possible direct design of the joint without recourse to trial and error (Ref. 18). (The direct procedure, as outlined previously, is illustrated in the following example.)

The stiffness or resistance to angular displacement of a riveted joint determines the degree of fixity that should be assumed in the analysis of beams with riveted ends or of rectangular frames. Tests (Ref. 19) have shown that although joints made with wide gusset plates are practically rigid, joints made by simply riveting through clip angles are not even approximately so. A method of calculating the elastic constraint afforded by riveted joints of different types, based on an extensive series of tests, has been proposed by Rathbun (Ref. 20). Brombolich (Ref. 55) describes the use of a finite-element-analysis procedure to determine the effect of yielding, interference fits, and load sequencing on the stresses near fastener holes.

### EXAMPLE

Figure 14.1 represents a lap joint in which three 1-in rivets are used to connect a 15-in channel to a plate. The channel is loaded eccentrically as shown. It is required to determine the maximum shear stress in the rivets. (This is not, of course, a properly designed joint intended to develop the full strength of the channel. It represents a simple arrangement of rivets assumed for the purpose of illustrating the calculation of rivet stress due to a moment.)

**Solution.** The centroid of the rivet areas is found to be at $G$. The applied load is replaced by an equal load through $G$ and a couple equal to

$$
15{,}000 \times 5 = 75{,}000\ \text{lb-in}
$$

as shown in Fig. 14.1(b). The distances $r_1$, $r_2$, and $r_3$ of rivets 1, 2, and 3, respectively, from $G$ are as shown; the value of $\sum r^2$ is 126. The loads on the