stress or stress couple multiplied by the thickness. For laminated composites, the resultants are found by integrating the ply stresses through the thickness of the laminate. As with the stiffness properties, the CLPT computer programs handle the necessary integrations.

Although software makes it unnecessary to work directly with the stiffness matrices, it is important to understand what the different values mean. The general form of the laminate stress–strain relation is given by

$$
\begin{bmatrix}
N_x \\
N_y \\
N_{xy} \\
\hline
M_x \\
M_y \\
M_{xy}
\end{bmatrix}
=
\begin{bmatrix}
A_{11} & A_{12} & A_{16} & B_{11} & B_{12} & B_{16} \\
A_{12} & A_{22} & A_{26} & B_{12} & B_{22} & B_{26} \\
A_{16} & A_{26} & A_{66} & B_{16} & B_{26} & B_{66} \\
\hline
B_{11} & B_{12} & B_{16} & D_{11} & D_{12} & D_{16} \\
B_{12} & B_{22} & B_{26} & D_{12} & D_{22} & D_{26} \\
B_{16} & B_{26} & B_{66} & D_{16} & D_{26} & D_{66}
\end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix}
\varepsilon_x^0 \\
\varepsilon_y^0 \\
\gamma_{xy}^0 \\
\hline
\kappa_x \\
\kappa_y \\
\kappa_{xy}
\end{bmatrix}
\qquad \text{(C.2)}
$$

which can be written more succinctly as

$$
[N] = [A][\varepsilon^0] + [B][\kappa]
$$

$$
[M] = [B][\varepsilon^0] + [D][\kappa]
\qquad \text{(C.3)}
$$

The matrices $[N]$ and $[M]$ are the applied membrane and bending loads, expressed as stress resultants. $[\varepsilon^0]$ are the in-plane strains; the supercript 0 indicates the strains are referenced to the laminate midplane. $[\kappa]$ are the laminate curvatures. $[A]$, $[B]$, and $[D]$ are the matrix forms of the laminate stiffnesses. The matrix $[A]$ relates in-plane loads to in-plane strains, and the matrix $[D]$ relates bending loads to curvatures.

$[B]$ is known as the membrane-bending coupling matrix. It shows that, under the right conditions, a purely in-plane load can cause the laminate to warp, or a pure bending moment can cause the laminate to stretch. This can be seen by looking at one of the six stress–strain equations:

$$
N_x = A_{11}\varepsilon_x^0 + A_{12}\varepsilon_y^0 + A_{16}\gamma_{xy}^0 + B_{11}\kappa_x + B_{12}\kappa_y + B_{16}\kappa_{xy}
\qquad \text{(C.4)}
$$

If $B_{11}$ is non-zero, then pulling on the laminate in the $x$-direction also causes it to warp about the $y$-axis. This is the same effect that causes bimetallic beams (Sec. 8.2) to warp, and in fact the laminate stress–strain relation will reduce to the bimetallic beam solution if all of the plies are made from isotropic materials. Such coupling between in-plane and bending behavior is often undesirable. Fortunately, it is a simple matter to design a laminate where all $[B]$ terms are equal to zero.