# Formulas for Stress and Strain

130 \[CHAP. 8

For some sections the greatest horizontal shear stress at a given point occurs, not on a horizontal plane, but on an inclined longitudinal plane which cuts the section so as to make $b$ a minimum. Thus, for a circular tube or pipe the greatest horizontal shear stress at any point occurs on a *radial* plane; the corresponding shear stress in the plane of the section is not vertical but tangential, and in computing $\tau$ by Eq. (8.1-2) $b$ should be taken as twice the thickness of the tube instead of the net horizontal breadth of the member. (See Table 9.2, case 20 for an example of where this shear stress in a tube is of importance.)

In an I-, T-, or box section there is a horizontal shear stress on any vertical longitudinal plane through the flange, and this stress is usually a maximum at the juncture of flange and web. It may be calculated by Eq. (8.1-2), taking $A'$ as the area outside of the vertical plane (for outstanding flanges) or between the vertical plane and the center of the beam section (for box girders), and $b$ as the flange thickness (see the solution to Example 1b). The other terms have the same meanings as explained previously.

Shear stresses are not often of controlling importance except in wood or metal beams that have thin webs or a small span/depth ratio. For beams that conform to the assumptions stated previously, strength will practically always be governed by fiber stress.

## Change in projected length due to bending.

The apparent shortening of a beam due to bending, i.e., the difference between its original length and the horizontal projection of the elastic curve, is given by

$$
\Delta l = -\frac{1}{2}\int_0^l \left(\frac{dy}{dx}\right)^2 dx
$$

(8.1-14)

To evaluate $\Delta l$, $dy/dx$ is expressed in terms of $x$ [Eq. (8.1-5)] and the square of this is integrated as indicated.

The extreme fibers of the beam undergo a change in actual length due to stress given by

$$
e = \int_0^l \frac{Mc}{EI}\,dx
$$

(8.1-15)

By means of these equations the actual relative horizontal displacement of points on the upper or lower surface of the beam can be predicted and the necessary allowances made in the design of rocker bearings, clearance for the corners, etc.

## Tabulated formulas.

Table 8.1 gives formulas for the reactions, moments, slopes and deflections at each end of single-span beams supported and loaded in various ways. The table also gives formulas