# Contents

v

## Chapter 12 Columns and Other Compression Members 525

*Columns. Common Case. Local Buckling. Strength of Latticed Columns. Eccentric Loading: Initial Curvature. Columns under Combined Compression and Bending. Thin Plates with Stiffeners. Short Prisms under Eccentric Loading. Table. References.*

## Chapter 13 Shells of Revolution; Pressure Vessels; Pipes 553

*Circumstances and General State of Stress. Thin Shells of Revolution under Distributed Loadings Producing Membrane Stresses Only. Thin Shells of Revolution under Concentrated or Discontinuous Loadings Producing Bending and Membrane Stresses. Thin Multielement Shells of Revolution. Thin Shells of Revolution under External Pressure. Thick Shells of Revolution. Tables. References.*

## Chapter 14 Bodies in Contact Undergoing Direct Bearing and Shear Stress 689

*Stress due to Pressure between Elastic Bodies. Rivets and Riveted Joints. Miscellaneous Cases. Tables. References.*

## Chapter 15 Elastic Stability 709

*General Considerations. Buckling of Bars. Buckling of Flat and Curved Plates. Buckling of Shells. Tables. References.*

## Chapter 16 Dynamic and Temperature Stresses 743

*Dynamic Loading. General Conditions. Body in a Known State of Motion. Impact and Sudden Loading. Approximate Formulas. Remarks on Stress due to Impact. Temperature Stresses. Table. References.*

## Chapter 17 Stress Concentration Factors 771

*Static Stress and Strain Concentration Factors. Stress Concentration Reduction Methods. Table. References.*

## Appendix A Properties of a Plane Area 799

*Table.*

## Appendix B Glossary: Definitions 813

## Appendix C Composite Materials 827

*Composite Materials. Laminated Composite Materials. Laminated Composite Structures.*

## Index 841