# Formulas for Stress and Strain

plying the unit strain by the modulus of elasticity, and may differ from the true stress because the effect of the transverse stresses is not taken into account.

**Bending moment:** Reference is to a simple straight beam, assumed for convenience to be horizontal and loaded and supported by forces, all of which lie in a vertical plane. The bending moment at any section of the beam is the moment of all forces that act on the beam to the left (or right) of that section, taken about the horizontal axis in the plane of the section. When considering the moment at the section due to the forces to the left of the section, the bending moment is positive when counterclockwise and negative when clockwise. The reverse is true when considering the moment due to forces to the right of the section. Thus, a positive bending moment bends the beam such that the beam deforms concave upward, and a negative bending moment bends it concave downward. The *bending moment equation* is an expression for the bending moment at any section in terms of $x$, the distance along the longitudinal axis of the beam to the section measured from an origin, usually taken to be the left end of the beam.

Bending moments as applied to straight beams in two-plane symmetric or unsymmetric bending, curved beams, or plates are a bit more involved, and are discussed in the appropriate sections of this book.

**Bending stress (flexural stress):** The tensile and compressive stress transmitted in a beam or plate that arises from the bending moment. (See *Flexure equation*.)

**Boundary conditions:** As used in structural analysis, the term usually refers to the condition of stress, displacement, or slope at the ends or edges of a member, where these conditions are apparent from the circumstances of the problem. For example, given a beam with fixed ends, the zero displacement and slope at each end are boundary conditions. For a plate with a freely supported edge, the zero-stress state is a boundary condition.

**Brittle fracture:** The tensile failure of a material with negligible plastic deformation. The material can inherently be a brittle material in its normal state such as glass, masonry, ceramic, cast iron, or high strength high-carbon steel (see Sec. 3.7); or can be a material normally considered ductile which contains imperfections exceeding specific limits, or in a low-temperature environment, or undergoing high strain rates, or any combination thereof.

**Bulk modulus of elasticity:** The ratio of a tensile or compressive stress, triaxial and equal in all directions (e.g., hydrostatic pressure) to the relative change it produces in volume.