# Formulas for Stress and Strain

278

[CHAP. 9]

or

$$
\sigma_{\max}=\frac{Ma}{I}\frac{1-\beta}{K}
\qquad \text{at } y=a
\qquad \text{if } \frac{tR}{a^2}>1.472
$$

where

$$
\beta=\frac{6}{5+6(tR/a^2)^2}
$$

and $y$ is measured from the neutral axis. Torsional stresses and deflections are unchanged.

In calculating deflection or stress in curved beams of hollow square section and uniform wall thickness, replace $I$ by

$$
\frac{1+0.0270n}{1+0.0656n}I
$$

where $n=b^4/R^2t^2$. (Here $R=$ the radius of curvature of the beam axis, $b=$ the length of the side of the square section, and $t=$ the thickness of the section wall.)

The preceding formulas for circular sections are from von Kármán (Ref. 4); the formulas for square sections are from Timoshenko (Ref. 5), who also gives formulas for rectangular sections.

Extensive analyses have been made for thin-walled pipe elbows with sharp curvatures for which the equations given above do not apply directly. Loadings may be *in-plane, out-of-plane,* or in various combinations (Ref. 8). Internal pressure increases and external pressure decreases pipe-bend stiffness. To determine ultimate load capacities of pipe bends or similar thin shells, elastic-plastic analyses, studies of the several modes of instability, and the stabilizing effects of flanges and the piping attached to the elbows are some of the many subjects presented in published works. Bushnell (Ref. 7) included an extensive list of references. Using numerical results from computer codes, graphs of stress indices and flexibility factors provide design data (Refs. 7, 19, and 34).

## Deflection of curved beams of small radius.

For a sharply curved beam, i.e., the radius of curvature is less than 10 times the depth, the stress distribution is not linear across the depth. The expression for the complementary energy of flexure is given by

$$
U_f=\int \frac{M^2}{2AEeR}R\,dx=\int \frac{M^2}{2AEe}\,dx
\qquad\qquad (9.2\text{-}1)
$$

where $A$ is the cross-sectional area, $E$ is the modulus of elasticity, and $e$ is the distance from the centroidal axis to the neutral axis as given in Table 9.1. The differential change in angle $dx$ is the same as is used in