# Formulas for Stress and Strain

along a zigzag line when rivets are staggered, is guarded against in standard specifications (Ref. 13) by detailed rules for edge clearance, maximum grip of rivets, maximum pitch, and computing the net width of riveted parts. Provision is made for the use of high-strength bolts in place of rivets under certain circumstances (Ref. 42). Joints may be made by welding instead of riveting, but the use of welding in conjunction with riveting is not approved on new work; the division of the load as between the welds and the rivets would be indeterminate.

## Tests on riveted joints.

In general, tests on riveted joints show that although under working loads the stress conditions may be considerably at variance with the usual assumptions, the ultimate strength may be closely predicted by calculations based thereon. Some of the other conclusions drawn from such tests may be summarized as follows.

In either lap or double-strap butt joints in very wide plates, the unit tensile strength developed by the net section is greater than that developed by the plate itself when tested in full width and is practically equal to that developed by narrow tension specimens cut from the plate. The rivets in lap joints are as strong relative to undriven rivets tested in shear as are the rivets in butt joints. Lap joints bend sufficiently at stresses below the usual design stresses to cause opening of caulked joints (Ref. 14).

Although it is frequently specified that rivets shall not be used in tension, tests show that hot-driven buttonhead rivets develop a strength in direct tension greater than the strength of the rod from which they are made, and that they may be relied upon to develop this strength in every instance. Although the initial tension in such rivets due to cooling usually amounts to 70% or more of the yield strength, this initial tension does not reduce the ability of the rivets to resist an applied tensile load (see also Sec. 3.12). Unless a joint is subjected to reversals of primary load, the use of rivets in tension appears to be justified; but when the primary load producing shear in the rivets is reversed, the reduction in friction due to simultaneous rivet tension may permit slip to occur, with possible deleterious effects (Ref. 15).

With respect to the form of the rivet head, the rounded or buttonhead type is standard; but countersunk rivets are often used, and tests show that these develop the same ultimate strength, although they permit much more slip and deformation at working loads than do the buttonhead rivets (Ref. 16).

In designing riveted joints in very thin metals, especially the light alloys, it may be necessary to take into account factors that are not usually considered in ordinary structural-steel work, such as the