522

# Formulas for Stress and Strain

[CHAP. 11

30. Levy, S.: Bending of Rectangular Plates with Large Deflections, *Natl. Adu. Comm. Aeron, Tech. Note* 846, 1942.  
31. Levy, S.: Square Plate with Clamped Edges under Normal Pressure Producing Large Deflections, *Natl. Adu. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 847, 1942.  
32. Levy, S., and S. Greenman: Bending with Large Deflection of a Clamped Rectangular Plate with Length-width Ratio of 1.5 under Normal Pressure, *Natl. Adu. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 853, 1942.  
33. Chi-Teh Wang: Nonlinear Large Deflection Boundary-value Problems of Rectangular Plates, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1425, 1948.  
34. Chi-Teh Wang: Bending of Rectangular Plates with Large Deflections, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1462, 1948.  
35. Ramberg, W., A. E. McPherson, and S. Levy: Normal Pressure Tests of Rectangular Plates, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Rept. 748,* 1942.  
36. Conway, H. D.: The Bending of Symmetrically Loaded Circular Plates of Variable Thickness, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 15 no. 1, 1948.  
37. Reissmann, Herbert: Bending of Clamped Wedge Plates, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 20, March 1953.  
38. Bassali, W. A., and R. H. Dawoud: Bending of an Elastically Restrained Circular Plate under Normal Loading on a Sector, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 25, no. 1, 1958.  
39. Bassali, W. A., and M. Nassif: Stresses and Deflections in Circular Plate Loaded over a Segment, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 26, no. 1, 1959.  
40. Jurney, W. H.: Displacements and Stresses of a Laterally Loaded Semicircular Plate with Clamped Edges, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 26, no. 2, 1959.  
41. Conway, H. D.: Bending of Rectangular Plates Subjected to a Uniformly Distributed Lateral Load and to Tensile or Compressive Forces in the Plane of the Plate, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 16, no. 3, 1949.  
42. Morse, R. F., and H. D. Conway: The Rectangular Plate Subjected to Hydrostatic Tension and to Uniformly Distributed Lateral Load, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 18, no. 2, June 1951.  
43. Hodge, P. G., Jr.: “Plastic Analysis of Structures,” McGraw-Hill, 1959.  
44. Shull, H. E., and L. W. Hu: Load-carrying Capacities of Simply Supported Rectangular Plates, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 30, no. 4, 1963.  
45. Zaid, M.: Carrying Capacity of Plates of Arbitrary Shape, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 25, no. 4, 1958.  
46. Márkus, G.: “Theorie und Berechnung rotationssymmetrischer Bauwerke,” Werner-Verlag, 1967.  
47. Barés, R.: “Tables for the Analysis of Plates, Slabs and Diaphragms Based on the Elastic Theory,” 3d ed., Bauverlag GmbH (English transl. by Carel van Amerogen), Macdonald and Evans, 1979.  
48. Heap, J.: Bending of Circular Plates Under a Variable Symmetrical Load, *Argonne Natl. Lab. Bull.* 6882, 1964.  
49. Moody, W: Moments and Reactions for Rectangular Plates, *Bur. Reclamation Eng. Monogr.* 27, 1960.  
50. Marguerre, K., and H. Woernle: “Elastic Plates,” Blaisdell, 1969.  
51. Morley, L.: “Skew Plates and Structures,” Macmillan, 1963.  
52. Hodge, P.: “Limit Analysis of Rotationally Symmetric Plates and Shells,” Prentice-Hall, 1963.  
53. Kennedy, J., and S. Ng: Linear and Nonlinear Analyses of Skewed Plates, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 34, no. 2, 1967.  
54. Srinivasan, R. S., and V. Thiruvenkatachari: Large Deflection Analysis of Clamped Annular Sector Plates, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.,* vol. 19, no. 1, 1948.  
55. Leissa, A., C. Lo, and F. Niedenfuhr: Uniformly Loaded Plates of Regular Polygonal Shape, *AIAA J.,* vol. 3, no. 3, 1965.  
56. Leissa, A., W. Clausen, L. Hulbert, and A. Hopper: A Comparison of Approximate Methods for the Solution of Plate Bending Problems, *AIAA J.,* vol. 7, no. 5, 1969.  
57. Stanek, F. J.: “Stress Analysis of Circular Plates and Cylindrical Shells,” Dorrance, 1970.  
58. Griffel, W.: “Plate Formulas,” Frederick Ungar, 1968.  
59. Tuncel, Özcan: Circular Ring Plates Under Partial Arc Loading, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.,* vol. 31, no. 2, 1964.