SEC. 8.18]  
# Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars

35. Sechler, E. E., and L. G. Dunn: “Airplane Structural Analysis and Design,” John Wiley & Sons, 1942.

36. Griffel, W.: “Handbook of Formulas for Stress and Strain,” Frederick Ungar, 1966.

37. Reissner, E.: Least Work Solutions of Shear Lag Problems, *J. Aeron. Sci.*, vol. 8, no. 7, p. 284, 1941.

38. Hildebrand, F. B., and E. Reissner: Least-work Analysis of the Problem of Shear Lag in Box Beams, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 893, 1943.

39. Winter, G.: Stress Distribution in and Equivalent Width of Flanges of Wide, Thin-wall Steel Beams, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 784, 1940.

40. Tate, M. B.: Shear Lag in Tension Panels and Box Beams, *Iowa Eng. Exp. Sta. Iowa State College, Eng. Rept.* 3, 1950.

41. Vlasov, V. Z., and U. N. Leontév: “Beams, Plates and Shells on Elastic Foundations,” transl. from Russian, Israel Program for Scientific Translations, Jerusalem, NASA TT F-357, US., 1966.

42. Kameswara Rao, N. S. V., Y. C. Des, and M. Anandakrishnan: Variational Approach to Beams on Elastic Foundations, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., J. Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 97, no. 2, 1971

43. White, Richard N.: Rectangular Plates Subjected to Partial Edge Loads: Their Elastic Stability and Stress Distribution, doctoral dissertation, University of Wisconsin, 1961.

44. Chow, L., Harry D. Conway, and George Winter: Stresses in Deep Beams, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 118, p. 686, 1963.

45. Kaar, P. H.: Stress in Centrally Loaded Deep Beams, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 15, no. 1, p. 77, 1957.

46. Saad, S., and A. W. Hendry: Stresses in a Deep Beam with a Central Concentrated Load, *Exp. Mech., J. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 18, no. 1, p. 192, 1961.

47. Jaramillo, T. J.: Deflections and Moments due to a Concentrated Load on a Cantilever Plate of Infinite Length, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 17, no. 1, 1950.

48. Wellauer, E. J., and A. Seireg: Bending Strength of Gear Teeth by Cantilever-plate Theory, *ASME J. Eng. Ind.*, vol. 82, August 1960.

49. Little, Robert W.: Bending of a Cantilever Plate, master’s thesis, University of Wisconsin, 1959.

50. Small, N. C.: Bending of a Cantilever Plate Supported from an Elastic Half Space, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 28, no.3, 1961.

51. Hetényi, M.: Series Solutions for Beams on Elastic Foundations, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 38, no. 2, 1971.

52. Duncan, W. J.: The Flexural Center or Center of Shear, *J. R. Aeron. Soc.*, vol. 57, September 1953.

53. Hetényi, Miklos: “Beams on Elastic Foundation,” The University of Michigan Press, 1946.

54. O’Donpell, W. J.: The Additional Deflection of a Cantilever Due to the Elasticity of the Support, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 27, no. 3, 1960.

55. “ANC Mil-Hdbk-5, Strength of Metal Aircraft Elements,” Armed Forces Supply Support Center, March 1959.

56. Kleinlogel, A,: “Rigid Frame Formulas,” Frederick Ungar, 1958.

57. Leontovich, Valerian: “Frames and Arches,” McGraw-Hill, 1959.

58. Lee, G, C.: A Survey of Literature on the Lateral Instability of Beams, *Bull. 63 Weld. Res. Counc*, August 1960.

59. Kelley, B. W., and R. Pedersen: The Beam Strength of Modern Gear Tooth Design, *Trans. SAE*, vol. 66, 1950.

60. Beedle, Lynn S.: “Plastic Design of Steel Frames,” John Wiley & Sons, 1958.

61. “The Steel Skeleton,” vol. II, “Plastic Behaviour and Design,” Cambridge University Press, 1956.

62. Johnston, B. G., F. J. Lin, and T. V. Galambos: “Basic Steel Design,” 3rd ed., Prentice-Hall, 1986.

63. Weigle, R. E., R. R. Lasselle, and J. P. Purtell: Experimental Investigation of the Fatigue Behavior of Thread-type Projections, *Exp. Mech.*, vol. 3, no. 5, 1963.

64. Leko, T.: On the Bending Problem of Prismatical Beam by Terminal Transverse Load, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 32, no. 1, 1965.