# APP. A

# Properties of a Plane Area

801

two or more axes of identical symmetry is the same for any central axis.

The moment of inertia and radius of gyration of a section with respect to a centroidal axis are less than for any other axis parallel thereto.

The moment of inertia of a composite section (one regarded as made up of rectangles, triangles, circular segments, etc.) about an axis is equal to the sum of the moments of inertia of each component part about that axis. Voids are taken into account by subtracting the moment of inertia of the void area.

Expressions for the area, distances of centroids from edges, moments of inertia, and radii of gyration are given in Table A.1 for a number of representative sections. The moments of products of inertia for composite areas can be found by addition; the centroids of composite areas can be found by using the relation that the statical moment about any line of the entire area is equal to the sum of the statical moments of its component parts.

Although properties of structural sections—wide-flange beams, channels, angles, etc.—are given in structural handbooks, formulas are included in Table A.1 for similar sections. These are applicable to sections having a wider range of web and flange thicknesses than normally found in the rolled or extruded sections included in the handbooks.

Plastic or ultimate strength design is discussed in Secs. 8.15 and 8.16, and the use of this technique requires the value of the fully plastic bending moment—the product of the yield strength of a ductile material and the plastic section modulus $Z$. The last column in Table A.1 gives for many of the sections the value or an expression for $Z$ and the location of the neutral axis under fully plastic pure bending. This neutral axis does not, in general, pass through the centroid, but instead divides the section into equal areas in tension and compression.