# Chapter 17

# Stress Concentration

When a large stress gradient occurs in a small, localized area of a structure, the high stress is referred to as a *stress concentration*. Near changes in geometry of a loaded structure, the *flow* of stress is interfered with, causing high stress gradients where the maximum stress and strain may greatly exceed the average or nominal values based on simple calculations. Contact stresses, as discussed in Chapter 14, also exhibit high stress gradients near the point of contact, which subside quickly as one moves away from the contact area. Thus, the two most common occurrences of stress concentrations are due to (1) discontinuities in continuum and (2) contact forces. Discontinuities in continuum include changes in geometry and material properties. This chapter is devoted to geometric changes.

Rapid geometry changes disrupt the smooth flow of stresses through the structure between load application areas. Plates in tension or bending with holes, notches, steps, etc. are simple examples involving direct normal stresses. Shafts in tension, bending, and torsion, with holes, notches, steps, keyways, etc., are simple examples involving direct and bending normal stresses and torsional shear stresses. More complicated geometries must be analyzed either by experimental or numerical techniques such as the finite element method. Other, less obvious, geometry changes include rough surface finishes and external and internal cracks.

Changes in material properties are discussed in Chap. 7, and demonstrated in an example where a change in modulus of elasticity drastically changed the stress distribution. Changes in material properties can occur both at macroscopic and microscopic levels which include alloy formulation, grain size and orientation, foreign materials, etc.

771