686 **Formulas for Stress and Strain** [CHAP. 13]

## 13.9 References

1. Southwell, R. V.: On the Collapse of Tubes by External Pressure, *Philos. Mag.*, vol. 29, p. 67, 1915.
2. Roark, R. J.: The Strength and Stiffness of Cylindrical Shells under Concentrated Loading, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 2, no. 4, p. A-147, 1935.
3. Timoshenko, S.: “Theory of Plates and Shells,” Engineering Societies Monograph, McGraw-Hill, 1940.
4. Schorer, H.: Design of Large Pipe Lines, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 98, p. 101, 1933.
5. Flügge, W.: “Stresses in Shells,” Springer-Verlag, 1960.
6. Baker, E. H., L. Kovalevsky, and F. L. Rish: “Structural Analysis of Shells,” McGraw-Hill, 1972.
7. Saunders, H. E., and D. F. Windenburg: Strength of Thin Cylindrical Shells under External Pressure, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 53, p. 207, 1931.
8. Jasper, T. M., and J. W. W. Sullivan: The Collapsing Strength of Steel Tubes, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 53, p. 219, 1931.
9. American Society of Mechanical Engineers: Rules for Construction of Nuclear Power Plant Components, Sec. III; Rules for Construction of Pressure Vessels, Division 1, and Division 2, Sec. VIII; ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 1971.
10. Langer, B. F.: Design-stress Basis for Pressure Vessels, *Exp. Mech., J. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 11, no. 1, 1971.
11. Hartenberg, R. S.: The Strength and Stiffness of Thin Cylindrical Shells on Saddle Supports, doctoral dissertation, University of Wisconsin, 1941.
12. Wilson, W. M., and E. D. Olson: Tests on Cylindrical Shells, *Eng. Exp. Sta., Univ. Ill. Bull.* 331, 1941.
13. Odyqvist, F. K. G.: Om Barverkan Vid Tunna Cylindriska Skal Ock Karlvaggar, *Proc. Roy. Swed. Inst. for Eng. Res.*, No. 164, 1942.
14. Hetényi, M.: Spherical Shells Subjected to Axial Symmetrical Bending, vol. 5 of the Publications, International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineers, 1938.
15. Reissner, E.: Stresses and Small Displacements of Shallow Spherical Shells, II, *J. Math. and Phys.*, vol. 25, No. 4, 1947.
16. Clark, R. A.: On the Theory of Thin Elastic Toroidal Shells, *J. Math. and Phys.*, vol. 29, no. 3, 1950.
17. O’Brien, G. J., E. Wetterstrom, M. G. Dykhuizen, and R. G. Sturm: Design Correlations for Cylindrical Pressure Vessels with Conical or Toriconical Heads, *Weld. Res. Suppl.*, vol. 15, no. 7, p. 336, 1950.
18. Osipova, L. N., and S. A. Tumarkin: “Tables for the Computation of Toroidal Shells,” P. Noordhoff, 1965 (English transl. by M. D. Friedman).
19. Roark, R. J.: Stresses and Deflections in Thin Shells and Curved Plates due to Concentrated and Variously Distributed Loading, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 806, 1941.
20. Svensson, N. L.: The Bursting Pressure of Cylindrical and Spherical Vessels, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 25, no. 1, 1958.
21. Durelli, A. J., J. W. Dally, and S. Morse: Experimental Study of Thin-wall Pressure Vessels, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 18, no. 1, 1961.
22. Bijlaard, P. P.: Stresses from Local Loadings in Cylindrical Pressure Vessels, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 77, no. 6, 1955 (also in Ref. 28).
23. Bijlaard, P. P.: Stresses from Radial Loads in Cylindrical Pressure Vessels, *Weld. J.*, vol. 33, December 1954 (also in Ref. 28).
24. Yuan, S. W., and L. Ting: On Radial Deflections of a Cylinder Subjected to Equal and Opposite Concentrated Radial Loads, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 24, no. 6, 1957.
25. Ting, L., and S. W. Yuan: On Radial Deflection of a Cylinder of Finite Length with Various End Conditions, *J. Aeron. Sci.*, vol. 25, 1958.
26. Final Report, Purdue University Project, Design Division, Pressure Vessel Research Committee, Welding Research Council, 1952.
27. Wichman, K. R., A. G. Hopper, and J. L. Mershon: “Local Stresses in Spherical and Cylindrical Shells Due to External Loadings,” *Weld. Res. Counc. Bull. No. 107*, August 1965.