388  **Formulas for Stress and Strain**  [CHAP. 10]

in equilibrium with the surface tension. The volume which is to be removed from the soap film is now well-defined and will be worked out using cases 1 and 33, but the unanswered question is what the addition of the wire did to the total volume of the original soap film. It is changed by a small amount. This information comes from Ref. 12, where Isakower shows numerical solutions to some problems with internal noncircular holes. The amount of the error depends upon the number and shape of the splines and upon how close they come to the outer boundary of the shaft. Ignoring these errors, the solution can be carried out as before.

The torque carried by the solid round shaft is the same as for section A. For the 12-point internal spline, one needs to use case 33 three times since case 33 carries only four splines and then remove the extra material added by using case 1 twice for the material internal to the splines. For case 33 let $r = 0.6$, $b = 0.1$, and $a = 0.157/2$, which gives $b/r = 0.167$ and $a/b = 0.785$. Using the equations in case 33 one finds $C = 0.8098$ and for each of the three four-splined sections, $K = 2(0.8098)(0.6)^4 = 0.2099$. For each of the two central circular sections removed, use case 1 with $r = 0.6$, getting $K = \pi(0.6^4)/2 = 0.2036$. Therefore, for the splined hole the value of $K_i = 3(0.2099) - 2(0.2036) = 0.2225$. For the solid shaft with the splined hole removed, $K_R = \pi(1)^4/2 - 0.2225 = 1.3483$ so that $T_R = 1.3483G\theta/L$.

Finding the maximum shear stress is a more difficult task for this cross section. If, as stated before, the total volume of the original soap film is changed a small amount when the spline-shaped wire is inserted, one might expect the meridional slope of the soap film at the outer edge and the corresponding stress at the outer surface of the shaft $A$ to change slightly. However, if one ignores this effect, this shear stress can be found as (case 1)

$$
\tau_o = \frac{2T_o}{\pi R_o^3} = \frac{2T_R}{\pi R_o^3}\frac{T_o}{T_R} = \frac{2T_R}{\pi R_o^3}\frac{K_o}{K_R} = \frac{2T_R}{\pi(1)^3}\frac{\pi/2}{1.3378} = 0.7475T_R
$$

For this section, however, there is a possibility that the maximum shear stress and maximum slope of soap film will be bound at the outer edge of an internal spline. No value for this is known, but it would be close to the maximum shear stress on the inner edge of the spline for the material removed. This is given in case 33 as $\tau_i = TB/r^3$, where $B$ can be found from the equations to be $B = 0.6264$, so that $\tau_i = T(0.6264)/0.6^3 = 2.8998T$. Since the torque here is the torque necessary to give a four-splined shaft a rate of twist $\theta/L$, which is common to all the elements used, both positive and negative,

$$
\tau_i = 2.8998\frac{KG\theta}{L} = 2.8998(0.2099)\frac{G\theta}{L} = 0.6087\frac{G\theta}{L}
$$

$$
= 0.6087\frac{T_R}{1.3483} = 0.454T_R
$$

Any errors in this calculation would not be of consequence unless the stress concentrations in the corners of the splines raise the peak shear stresses above $\tau_o = 0.7475T_R$. Since this is possible, one would want to carry out a more complete analysis if considerations of fatigue or brittle fracture were necessary.

Using the same arguments already presented for the first two sections, one can find $K_R$ for section C by using three of the 4-splined sections from case 33 and removing twice the solid round material with radius 1.0 and once the solid round material with radius 0.6. For case 33, $r = 1.0$, $b = 0.17$, $a = 0.262/2$,