# Formulas for Stress and Strain

strain proportionality (Hooke’s law). An elastic stress or strain is a stress or strain within the elastic limit.

**Elastic axis:** The elastic axis of a beam is the line, lengthwise of the beam, along which transverse loads must be applied to avoid torsion of the beam at any section. Strictly speaking, no such line exists except for a few conditions of loading. Usually the elastic axis is assumed to be the line through the elastic center of every section. The term is most often used with reference to an airplane wing of either the shell or multiple spar type. (Compare with *Torsional center; Flexural center; Elastic center.* See Ref. 5.)

**Elastic center:** The elastic center of a given section of a beam is that point in the plane of the section lying midway between the shear center and center of twist of that section. The three points may be identical—which is the normal assumption. (Compare with *Shear center; Torsional center; Elastic axis.* See Refs. 5 and 6.)

**Elastic curve:** The curve assumed by the longitudinal axis of an initially straight beam or column in bending where the stress is within the elastic limit.

**Elastic instability (buckling):** Unstable local or global elastic deformations caused by compressive stresses in members with large length to lateral dimensions. (See *Slenderness ratio.*)

**Elastic, perfectly plastic material:** A model that represents the stress–strain curve of a material as linear from zero stress and strain to the elastic limit. Beyond the elastic limit, the stress remains constant with strain.

**Elastic limit:** The least stress that will cause permanent set. (Compare with *Proportional limit; Apparent elastic limit, Yield point; Yield strength.* See Sec. 3.2 and Ref. 7.)

**Elastic ratio:** The ratio of the elastic limit to the ultimate strength.

**Ellipsoid of strain:** An ellipsoid that represents the state of strain at any given point in a body. It has the shape assumed under stress by a sphere centered at the point in question (Ref 8).

**Ellipsoid of stress:** An ellipsoid that represents the state of stress at any given point in a body; its semi-axes are vectors representing the principal stresses at the point, and any radius vector represents the resultant stress on a particular plane through the point. For a condition of plane stress, where one of the principal stresses is zero, the ellipsoid becomes the *ellipse of stress* (see Ref. 9).

**Endurance limit (fatigue strength):** The maximum stress amplitude of a purely reversing stress that can be applied to a material an