SEC. 2.3] Stress and Strain: Important Relationships 17

It can be shown that for a linear, homogeneous, isotropic material the shear modulus is related to Poisson’s ratio by (Ref. 1)

$$
G = \frac{E}{2(1 + \nu)}
$$

(2.2-7)

## 2.3 Stress Transformations

As was stated in Sec. 2.1, knowing the state of stress on three mutually orthogonal surfaces at a point in a structure is sufficient to generate the state of stress for *any* surface at the point. This is accomplished through the use of *coordinate transformations*. The development of the transformation equations is quite lengthy and is not provided here (see Ref. 1). Consider the element shown in Fig. 2.8(*a*), where the stresses on surfaces with normals in the $x$, $y$, and $z$ directions are known and are represented by the stress matrix

$$
[\boldsymbol{\sigma}]_{xyz} =
\begin{bmatrix}
\sigma_x & \tau_{xy} & \tau_{zx} \\
\tau_{xy} & \sigma_y & \tau_{yz} \\
\tau_{zx} & \tau_{yz} & \sigma_z
\end{bmatrix}
$$

(2.3-1)

Now consider the element, shown in Fig. 2.8(*b*), to correspond to the state of stress *at the same point* but defined relative to a different set of surfaces with normals in the $x'$, $y'$, and $z'$ directions. The stress matrix corresponding to this element is given by

$$
[\boldsymbol{\sigma}]_{x'y'z'} =
\begin{bmatrix}
\sigma_{x'} & \tau_{x'y'} & \tau_{z'x'} \\
\tau_{x'y'} & \sigma_{y'} & \tau_{y'z'} \\
\tau_{z'x'} & \tau_{y'z'} & \sigma_{z'}
\end{bmatrix}
$$

(2.3-2)

To determine $[\boldsymbol{\sigma}]_{x'y'z'}$ by coordinate transformation, we need to establish the relationship between the $x'y'z'$ and the $xyz$ coordinate systems. This is normally done using *directional cosines*. First, let us consider the relationship between the $x'$ axis and the $xyz$ coordinate system. The orientation of the $x'$ axis can be established by the angles $\theta_{x'x}$, $\theta_{x'y}$, and $\theta_{x'z}$, as shown in Fig. 2.9. The directional cosines for $x'$ are given by

$$
l_{x'} = \cos \theta_{x'x}, \qquad m_{x'} = \cos \theta_{x'y}, \qquad n_{x'} = \cos \theta_{x'z}
$$

(2.3-3)

Similarly, the $y'$ and $z'$ axes can be defined by the angles $\theta_{y'x}$, $\theta_{y'y}$, $\theta_{y'z}$ and $\theta_{z'x}$, $\theta_{z'y}$, $\theta_{z'z}$, respectively, with corresponding directional cosines

$$
l_{y'} = \cos \theta_{y'x}, \qquad m_{y'} = \cos \theta_{y'y}, \qquad n_{y'} = \cos \theta_{y'z}
$$

(2.3-4)

$$
l_{z'} = \cos \theta_{z'x}, \qquad m_{z'} = \cos \theta_{z'y}, \qquad n_{z'} = \cos \theta_{z'z}
$$

(2.3-5)