**SEC. 3.5]** **The Behavior of Bodies under Stress** **39**

Concrete also shows considerable variation in modulus of elasticity, and in general its stiffness increases with its strength. Like cast iron, concrete can be made to exhibit perfect elasticity up to a moderate stress by repeated loading up to that stress. Because of its tendency to yield under continuous loading, the modulus of elasticity indicated by long-time loading is much less than that obtained by progressive loading at ordinary speeds.

## 3.4 Load–Deformation Relation for a Body

If Hooke's law holds for the material of which a member or structure is composed, the member or structure will usually conform to a similar law of load-deformation proportionality and the deflection of a beam or truss, the twisting of a shaft, the dilation of a pressure container, etc., may in most instances be assumed proportional to the magnitude of the applied load or loads.

There are two important exceptions to this rule. One is to be found in any case where the stresses due to the loading are appreciably affected by the deformation. Examples of this are: a beam subjected to axial and transverse loads; a flexible wire or cable held at the ends and loaded transversely; a thin diaphragm held at the edges and loaded normal to its plane; a ball pressed against a plate or against another ball; and a helical spring under severe extension.

The second exception is represented by any case in which failure occurs through elastic instability, as in the compressive loading of a long, slender column. Here, for compression loads less than a specific *critical (Euler) load*, elastic instability plays no part and the axial deformation is linear with load. At the critical load, the type of deformation changes, and the column bends instead of merely shortening axially. For any load beyond the critical load, high bending stresses and failure occurs through excessive deflection (see Sec. 3.13).

## 3.5 Plasticity

Elastic deformation represents an actual change in the distance between atoms or molecules; plastic deformation represents a permanent change in their relative positions. In crystalline materials, this permanent rearrangement consists largely of group displacements of the atoms in the crystal lattice brought about by slip on planes of least resistance, parts of a crystal sliding past one another and in some instances suffering angular displacement. In amorphous materials, the rearrangement appears to take place through the individual shifting from positions of equilibrium of many atoms or molecules, the cause being thermal agitation due to external work and the result appearing as a more or less uniform flow like that of a viscous liquid. It