426  
# Formulas for Stress and Strain

## 10.8 References

1. Cook, R. D., and W. C. Young: “Advanced Mechanics of Materials,” 2nd ed., Prentice-Hall, 1998.
2. Trayer, G. W., and H. W. March: The Torsion of Members having Sections Common in Aircraft Construction, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Rept. 334*, 1929.
3. Griffith, A. A.: The Determination of the Torsional Stiffness and Strength of Cylindrical Bars of any Shape, *Repts. Memo. 334, Adv. Comm. Aeron. (British)*, 1917.
4. Taylor, G. I., and A. A. Griffith: The Use of Soap Films in Solving Torsion Problems, *Reports and Memoranda 333, Adv. Comm. Aeron. (British)*, 1917.
5. Timoshenko, S.: “Strength of Materials,” pt. II, D. Van Nostrand, 1930.
6. Green, A. E.: The Equilibrium and Elastic Stability of a Thin Twisted Strip, *Proc. R. Soc. Lond. Ser. A*, vol. 154, 1936.
7. Younger, J. E.: “Structural Design of Metal Airplanes,” McGraw-Hill, 1935.
8. Wahl, A. M.: “Mechanical Springs,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1963. See also Wahl, Helical Compression and Tension Springs, *ASME Paper A-38, J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 2, no. 1, 1935.
9. Sayre, M. F.: New Spring Formulas and New Materials for Precision Spring Scales, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 58, p. 379, 1936.
10. Wilson, T. S.: The Eccentric Circular Tube, *Aircr. Eng.*, vol. 14, no. 157, March 1942.
11. Lyse, I., and B. G. Johnston: Structural Beams in Torsion, *Inst. Res., Lehigh Univ., Circ. 113*, 1935.
12. Isakower, R. I.: “The Shaft Book (Design Charts for Torsional Properties of Non-Circular Shafts),” U.S. Army ARRADCOM, MISD Users’ Manual 80-5, March 1980.
13. Isakower, R.I.: Don’t Guess on Non-Circular Shafts, *Des. Eng.*, November 1980.
14. Isakower, R. I., and R. E. Barnas.: “The Book of CLYDE—With a Torque-ing Chapter,” U.S. Army ARRADCOM Users’ Manual MISD UM 77-3, October 1977.
15. Payne, J. H.: Torsion in Box Beams, *Aircr. Eng.*, January 1942.
16. Abramyan, B. L.: Torsion and Bending of Prismatic Rods of Hollow Rectangular Section, *NACA Tech. Memo. 1319*, November 1951.
17. Timoshenko, S. P., and J. N. Goodier: “Theory of Elasticity,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1951.
18. “ANC Mil-Hdbk-5, Strength of Metal Aircraft Elements,” Armed Forces Supply Support Center, March 1959.
19. Bethlehem Steel Co.: Torsion Analysis of Rolled Steel Sections.
20. Nuttall, Henry: Torsion of Uniform Rods with Particular Reference to Rods of Triangular Cross Section, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 19, no. 4, 1952.
21. Gloumakoff, N. A., and Yi-Yuan Yu: Torsion of Bars With Isosceles Triangular and Diamond Sections, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 31, no. 2, 1964.
22. Chu, Chen: The Effect of Initial Twist on the Torsional Rigidity of Thin Prismatical Bars and Tubular Members, *Proc. 1st U.S. Nat. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, p. 265, 1951.
23. Engel, H. L., and J. N. Goodier: Measurements of Torsional Stiffness Changes and Instability Due to Tension, Compression and Bending, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 20, no. 4, 1953.
24. Ancker, C. J., Jr., and J. N. Goodier: Pitch and Curvature Correction for Helical Springs, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 25, no. 4, 1958.
25. Marshall, J.: Derivation of Torsion Formulas for Multiply Connected Thick-Walled Rectangular Sections, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 37, no. 2, 1970.
26. Poynting, J. H.: *Proc. R. Soc. Lond., Ser. A*, vol. 32, 1909; and vol. 36, 1912.
27. “Mechanical Springs: Their Engineering and Design,” 1st ed., William D. Gibson Co., Division of Associated Spring Corp., 1944.
28. Schwabenlender, C. W.: Torsion of Members of Open Cross Section, masters thesis, University of Wisconsin, 1965.
29. Chu, Kuang-Han, and A. Longinow: Torsion in Sections with Open and Closed Parts, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., J. Struct. Div.*, vol. 93, no. 6, 1967.
30. Vlasov, V. Z.: “Thin-Walled Elastic Beams,” Clearing House for Federal Scientific and Technical Information, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1961.
31. Kollbrunner, C. F., and K. Basler: “Torsion in Structures,” Springer-Verlag, 1969.