the first five resonant frequencies as well as deflections, slopes, bending moments, and shearing forces for each frequency at intervals of 0.02$l$ for uniform beams; these are available for six combinations of boundary conditions. He has also included the first five resonant frequencies for all combinations of 7 different amounts of correction for rotary inertia and 10 different amounts of correction for lateral shear deflection; many mode shapes for these corrections are also included. In Table 16.1, the resonant frequencies and nodal locations are listed for several boundary conditions with no corrections for rotary inertia or shear deflection. (Corrections for rotary inertia and shear deflection have a relatively small effect on the fundamental frequency but a proportionally greater effect on the higher modes.)

Leissa (Ref. 20) has compiled, compared, and in some cases extended most of the known work on the vibration of plates; where possible, mode shapes are given in addition to the many resonant frequencies. Table 16.1 lists only a very few simple cases. Similarly, Leissa (Ref. 21) has done an excellent job of reporting the known work on the vibration of shells. Since, in general, this work must involve three additional variables—the thickness/radius ratio, length/radius ratio, and Poisson’s ratio—no results are included here. Blevins, in Ref. 24, gives excellent coverage, by both formulas and tables, of resonant frequencies and mode shapes for cables, straight and curved beams, rings, plates, and shells.

A simple but close approximation for the fundamental frequency of a uniform thin plate of arbitrary shape having any combination of fixed, partially fixed, or simply supported boundaries is given by Jones in Ref. 23. The equation

$$
f = \frac{1.2769}{2\pi}\sqrt{\frac{g}{\delta_{\max}}}
$$

is based on his work where $\delta_{\max}$ is the maximum static deflection produced by the weight of the plate and any uniformly distributed mass attached to the plate and vibrating with it. It is based on the expression for the fundamental frequency of a clamped elliptical plate but, as Jones points out with several examples of triangular, rectangular, and circular plates having various combinations of boundary conditions, it should hold equally well for all uniform plates having no free boundaries. In the 16 examples he presents, the maximum error in frequency is about 3%.

## 16.4 Impact and Sudden Loading; Approximate Formulas

If it is assumed that the stresses due to impact are distributed throughout any elastic body exactly as in the case of static loading,