SEC. 11.13] Flat Plates 453

thinner plates, the nonlinear increase in stiffness due to diaphragm stresses is counteracted by the decrease in stiffness which occurs when the material starts to yield (Refs. 52 and 80). Save and Massonnet (Ref. 81) discuss the effect of the several yield criteria on the response of circular and rectangular plates under various loadings and give an extensive list of references. They also compare the results of theory with referenced experiments which have been performed. *Orthotropy* in plates can be caused by cold-forming the material or by the positioning of stiffeners. The effect of this orthotropic behavior on the yielding of circular plates is discussed by Save and Massonnet (Ref. 81) as well as by Markowitz and Hu (Ref. 82).

Crose and Ang (Ref. 83) describe an iterative solution scheme which first solves the elastic case and then increments the loading upward to allow a slow expansion of the yielded volume after it forms. The results of a test on a clamped plate are compared favorably with a theoretical solution.

## 11.13 Ultimate Strength

Plates of brittle material fracture when the actual maximum tensile stress reaches the ultimate tensile strength of the material. A flat-plate modulus of rupture, analogous to the modulus of rupture of a beam, may be determined by calculating the (fictitious) maximum stress corresponding to the breaking load, using for this purpose the appropriate formula for elastic stress. This flat-plate modulus of rupture is usually greater than the modulus of rupture determined by testing a beam of rectangular section.

Plates of ductile material fail by excessive plastic deflection, as do beams of similar material. For a number of cases the load required to produce collapse has been determined analytically, and the results for some of the simple loadings are summarized as follows.

1. *Circular plate; uniform load, edges simply supported*

$$
W_u = \sigma_y \left( \frac{3}{2} \pi t^2 \right) \qquad \text{(Ref. 43)}
$$

2. *Circular plate; uniform load, fixed edges*

$$
W_u = \sigma_y (2.814\pi t^2) \qquad \text{(Ref. 43)}
$$

(For collapse loads on partially loaded orthotropic annular plates see Refs. 81 and 82.)

3. *Rectangular plate, length a, width b; uniform load, edges supported*

$$
W_u = \beta \sigma_y t^2
$$