For shallow spherical shells where $\phi$ is small, Gerdeen and Niedenfuhr (Ref. 46) have developed influence coefficients for uniform pressure and for edge loads and moments. Shells with central cutouts are also included as are loads and moments on the edge of the cutouts. Many graphs as well as tabulated data are presented, which permits the solution of a wide variety of problems by superposition.

Cheng and Angsirikul (Ref. 80) present the results of an elasticity solution for edge-loaded spherical domes with thick walls and with thin walls.

## Conical shells.

Exact solutions to the differential equations for both long and short thin-walled truncated conical shells are described in Refs. 30, 31, 64, and 65. Verifications of these expressions by tests are described in Ref. 32, and applications to reinforced cones are described in Ref. 33. In Table 13.3, case 4 for long cones, where the loads at one end do not influence the displacements at the other, is based on the solution described by Taylor (Ref. 65) in which the Kelvin functions and their derivatives are replaced by asymptotic formulas involving negative powers of the conical shell parameter $k$ (presented here in a modified form):

$$
k = \frac{2}{\sin \alpha} \left[ \frac{12(1-\nu^2)R^2T}{t^2 \sec^2 \alpha} \right]^{1/4}
$$

These asymptotic formulas will give three-place accuracy for the Kelvin functions for all values of $k > 5$. To appreciate this fully, one must understand that a truncated thin-walled cone with an $R/t$ ratio of 10 at the small end, a semiapex angle of $80^\circ$, and a Poisson's ratio of 0.3 will have a value of $k = 4.86$. For problems where $k$ is much larger than 5, fewer terms can be used in the series, but a few trial calculations will soon indicate the number of terms it is necessary to carry. If only displacements and stresses at the loaded edge are needed, the simpler forms of the expressions can be used. (See the example at the end of Sec. 13.4.)

Baltrukonis (Ref. 64) obtains approximations for the influence coefficients which give the edge displacements for *short* truncated conical shells under axisymmetric edge loads and moments; this is done by using one-term asymptotic expressions for the Kelvin functions. Applying the multiterm asymptotic expressions suggested by Taylor to a short truncated conical shell leads to formulas that are too complicated to present in a reasonable form. Instead, in Table 13.3, case 5 tabulates numerical coefficients based upon this more accurate formulation but evaluated by a computer for the case where Poisson's