706  
**Formulas for Stress and Strain** \[CHAP. 14

## 14.5 References

1. Hertz, H.: “Gesammelte Werke,” vol. I, Leipzig, 1895.  
2. Thomas, H. R., and V. A. Hoersch: Stresses Due to the Pressure of One Elastic Solid Upon Another, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 212, 1930.  
3. Oppel, G.: The Photoelastic Investigation of Three-Dimensional Stress and Strain Conditions, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Memo.* 824, 1937.  
4. Jensen, V. P.: Stress Analysis by Means of Polarized Light with Special Reference to Bridge Rollers, *Bull Assoc. State Eng. Soc.*, October 1936.  
5. Föppl, A.: “Technische Mechanik,” 4th ed., vol. 5, p. 350.  
6. Timoshenko, S., and J. N. Goodier: “Theory of Elasticity,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1951.  
7. Wilson, W. M.: The Bearing Value of Rollers, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 263, 1934.  
8. Whittemore, H. L., and S. N. Petrenko: Friction and Carrying Capacity of Ball and Roller Bearings, *Tech. Paper Bur. Stand.*, No. 201, 1921.  
9. Wilson, W. M., R. L. Moore, and F. P. Thomas: Bearing Value of Pivots for Scales, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 242, 1932.  
10. Manual of the American Railway Engineering Association, 1936.  
11. Wilson, W. M.: Rolling Tests of Plates, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 191, 1929.  
12. Hrenikoff, A.: Work of Rivets in Riveted Joints, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 99, p. 437, 1934.  
13. Specifications for the Design, Fabrication and Erection of Structural Steel for Buildings, and Commentary, American Institute of Steel Construction, 1969.  
14. Wilson, W. M., J. Mather, and C. O. Harris: Tests of Joints in Wide Plates, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 239, 1931.  
15. Wilson, W. M., and W. A. Oliver: Tension Tests of Rivets, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 210, 1930.  
16. Kommers, J. B.: Comparative Tests of Button Head and Countersunk Riveted Joints, *Bull. Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ., Wis.*, vol. 9, no. 5, 1925.  
17. Hilbes, W.: Riveted Joints in Thin Plates, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Memo.* 590.  
18. Dubin, E. A.: Eccentric Riveted Connections, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 100, p. 1086, 1935.  
19. Wilson, W. M., and H. F. Moore: Tests to Determine the Rigidity of Riveted Joints of Steel Structures, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 104, 1917.  
20. Rathbun, J. C.: Elastic Properties of Riveted Connections, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 101, p. 524, 1936.  
21. “Wood Handbook,” Forest Products Laboratory, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, 1987.  
22. Baud, R. V., and R. E. Peterson: Loads and Stress Cycles in Gear Teeth, *Mech. Eng*., vol. 51, p. 653, 1929.  
23. Timoshenko, S., and R. V. Baud: The Strength of Gear Teeth, *Mech. Eng*., vol. 48, p. 1108, 1926.  
24. Dynamic Loads on Gear Teeth, *ASME Res. Pub*., 1931.  
25. Solakian, A. G., and G. B. Karelitz: Photoelastic Study of Shearing Stress in Keys and Keyways, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 54, no. 11, p. 97, 1932.  
26. Troelsch, H. W: Distributions of Shear in Welded Connections, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng*., vol. 99, p. 409, 1934.  
27. Report of Structural Steel Welding Committee of the American Bureau of Welding, 1931.  
28. Belajef, N. M.: On the Problem of Contact Stresses, *Bull. Eng. Ways Commun*., St. Petersburg, 1917.  
29. Belajef, N. M.: Computation of Maximal Stresses Obtained from Formulas for Pressure in Bodies in Contact, *Bull. Eng. Ways Commun*., Leningrad, 1929.  
30. Horger, O. J.: Fatigue Tests of Some Manufactured Parts, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal*., vol. 3, no. 2, p. 135, 1946.  
31. Radzimovsky, E. I.: Stress Distribution and Strength Conditions of Two Rolling Cylinders Pressed Together, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 408, 1953.  
32. Wilson, W. M.: Tests on the Bearing Value of Large Rollers, *Univ. Ill., Eng. Exp. Sta., Bull.* 162, 1927.