# Formulas for Stress and Strain

discussed in several references: Seide (Ref. 75), Weingarten (Ref. 76), and Weingarten, Morgan, and Seide (Ref. 82) for conical and cylindrical shells; Ref. 97 contains much information on this subject as well.

Axisymmetric snap-buckling of conical shells is discussed by Newman and Reiss (Ref. 73), which leads to the concept of the Belleville spring for the case of shallow shells. (See also Sec. 11.8.)

External pressure as a cause of buckling is examined by Singer (Ref. 72) for cones and by Newman and Reiss (Ref. 73) and Yao and Jenkins (Ref. 69) for elliptic cylinders. External pressure caused by pretensioned filament winding on cylinders is analyzed by Mikulas and Stein (Ref. 66); they point out that material compressibility in the thickness direction is important in this problem.

The combination of external pressure and axial loads on cylindrical and conical shells is very thoroughly examined and referenced by Radkowski (Ref. 79) and Weingarten and Seide (Ref. 81). The combined loading on orthotropic and stiffened conical shells is discussed by Singer (Ref. 74).

Attempts to manufacture nearly perfect shells in order to test the theoretical results have led to the construction of thin-walled shells by electroforming; Sendelbeck and Singer (Ref. 85) and Arbocz and Babcock (Ref. 91) describe the results of such tests.

A very thorough survey of buckling theory and experimentation for conical shells of constant thickness is presented by Seide (Ref. 78).

## Spherical shells.

Experimental work is described by Loo and Evan-Iwanowski on the effect of a concentrated load at the apex of a spherical cap (Ref. 90) and the effect of multiple concentrated loads (Ref. 89). Carlson, Sendelbeck, and Hoff (Ref. 70) report on the experimental study of buckling of electroformed complete spherical shells; they report experimental critical pressures of up to 86% of those predicted by theory and the correlation of flaws with lower test pressures.

Burns (Ref. 92) describes tests of static and dynamic buckling of thin spherical caps due to external pressure; both elastic and plastic buckling are considered and evaluated in these tests. Wu and Cheng (Ref. 71) discuss in detail the buckling due to circumferential hoop compression which is developed when a truncated spherical shell is subjected to an axisymmetric tensile load.

## Toroidal shells.

Stein and McElman (Ref. 86) derive nonlinear equations of equilibrium and buckling equations for segments of toroidal shells; segments that are symmetric with the equator are considered for both inner and outer diameters, as well as segments centered at the crown. Sobel and Flügge (Ref. 87) tabulate and graph the mini-