## SEC. 14.5]

# Bodies under Direct Bearing and Shear Stress

707

33. New Departure, Division of General Motors Corp.: “Analysis of Stresses and Deflections,” Bristol, Conn., 1946.

34. Lundberg, G., and H. Sjovall: Stress and Deformation in Elastic Contacts, Institution of Theory of Elasticity and Strength of Materials, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothehurg, 1958.

35. Smith, J. O., and C. K. Lin: Stresses Due to Tangential and Normal Loads on an Elastic Solid with Application to Some Contact Stress Problems, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 20, no. 2, 1953.

36. Palmgren, Arvid: “Ball and Roller Bearing Engineering,” 3rd ed., SKF Industries Inc., 1959.

37. Butler, R. H., H. R. Bear, and T. L. Carter: Effect of Fiber Orientation on Ball Failure, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note 3933* (also *Tech. Note 3930*).

38. Selection of Bearings, Timken Roller Bearing Co.

39. Corwin, A. H.: “Techniques of Organic Chemistry,” 3rd ed., vol 1, part 1, Interscience, 1959.

40. Styri, Haakon: Fatigue Strength of Ball Bearing Races and Heat Treated Steel Specimens, *Proc. ASTM*, vol. 51, 1951.

41. Burwell, J. T., Jr. (ed.): “Mechanical Wear,” American Society for Metals, 1950.

42. Specifications for Assembly of Structural Joints Using High Strength Steel Bolts, distributed by American Institute of Steel Construction; approved by Research Council on Riveted and Bolted Structural Joints of the Engineering Foundation; endorsed by American Institute of Steel Construction and Industrial Fasteners Institute.

43. Sopwith, D. C.: The Distribution of Load in Screw Threads, *Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng.,* vol. 159, 1948.

44. Lundberg, Gustaf: Cylinder Compressed between Two Plane Bodies, reprint courtesy of SKF Industries Inc., 1949.

45. Hiltscher, R., and G. Florin: Spalt- und Abreisszugspannungen in rechteckingen Scheiben, die durch eine Last in verschiedenem Abstand von einer Scheibenecke belastet sind, *Die Bautech.*, vol. 12, 1963.

46. MacGregor, C. W. (ed.): “Handbook of Analytical Design for Wear,” IBM Corp., Plenum Press, 1964.

47. Hamilton. G. M., and L. E. Goodman: The Stress Field Created by a Circular Sliding Contact, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 33, no. 2, 1966.

48. Goodman, L. E.: Contact Stress Analysis of Normally Loaded Rough Spheres, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 29, no. 3, 1962.

49. O’Connor, J. J.: Compliance Under a Small Torsional Couple of an Elastic Plate Pressed Between Two Identical Elastic Spheres, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 33, no. 2, 1966.

50. Tu, Yih-O: A Numerical Solution for an Axially Symmetric Contact Problem, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 34, no. 2, 1967.

51. Pu, S. L., and M. A. Hussain: Note on the Unbonded Contact Between Plates and an Elastic Half Space, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 37, no. 3, 1970.

52. Goodman, L. E., and L. M. Keer: The Contact Stress Problem for an Elastic Sphere Indenting an Elastic Cavity, *Int. J. Solids Struct.*, vol. 1, 1965.

53. Cooper, D. H.: Hertzian Contact-Stress Deformation Coefficients, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 36, no. 2, 1969.

54. Dundurs, J., and M. Stippes: Role of Elastic Constants in Certain Contact Problems, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 37, no. 4, 1970.

55. Brombolich, L. J.: Elastic-Plastic Analysis of Stresses Near Fastener Holes, *McDonnell Aircraft Co., MCAIR 73-002*, January 1973.

56. Sague, J. E.: The Special Way Big Bearings Can Fail, *Mach. Des*., September 1978.

57. Cook, R. D., and W. C. Young: “Advanced Mechanics of Materials,” 2nd ed., Prentice-Hall, 1999.

58. Shukla, A., and H. Nigam: A Numerical-Experimental Analysis of the Contact Stress Problem, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 30, no. 4, 1985.

59. Durelli, A. J., and Y. H. Lin: Stresses and Displacements on the Boundaries of Circular Rings Diametrically Loaded, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 53, no. 1, 1986.

60. Nelson, C. W.: Stresses and Displacements in a Hollow Circular Cylinder, Ph.D. thesis, University of Michigan, 1939.