# Formulas for Stress and Strain

12. Report of Committee on Materials of Construction, *Bull. Assoc. State Eng. Soc.*, July 1934.  
13. Soderberg, R.: Working Stresses, *ASME Paper* A-106, *J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 2, no. 3, 1935.  
14. Nadai, A.: Theories of Strength., *ASME Paper* APM 55-15, *J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 1, no. 3, 1933.  
15. Washa, G. W., and P. G. Fluck: Effect of Sustained Loading on Compressive Strength and Modulus of Elasticity of Concrete, *J. Am. Concr. Inst.*, vol. 46, May 1950.  
16. Neville, A. M.: “Creep of Concrete: Plain, Reinforced, and Prestressed,” North-Holland, 1970.  
17. Designing for Effects of Creep, Shrinkage, Temperature in Concrete Structures, *Am. Concr. Inst. Publ. SP-27*, 1971.  
18. “Fatigue Design Handbook,” Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc., 1968.  
19. Structural Fatigue in Aircraft, *ASTM Spec. Tech. Publ.* 404, 1965.  
20. Fatigue Crack Propagation, *ASTM Spec. Tech. Publ.* 415, 1966.  
21. Smith. J. O.: The Effect of Range of Stress on Fatigue Strength, *Univ. Ill., Eng. Exp. Sta. Bull.* 334, 1942.  
22. Horger, O. J., and H. R. Neifert: Fatigue Strength of Machined Forgings 6 to 7 Inches in Diameter, *Proc. ASTM*, vol. 39, 1939.  
23. Eaton, F. C.: Fatigue Tests of Large Alloy Steel Shafts; Symposium on Large Fatigue Testing Machines and their Results, *ASTM Spec. Tech. Publ.* 216, 1957.  
24. Jiro, H., and A. Junichi: Studies on Rotating Beam Fatigue of Large Mild Steel Specimens, *Proc. 9th Jap. Natl. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, 1959.  
25. Gould, A. J.: Corrosion Fatigue (in Ref. 32).  
26. Weibull, W.: Investigations into Strength Properties of Brittle Materials, *Proc. B. Swed. Inst. Eng. Res.*, no. 149, 1938.  
27. Sines, George, and J. L. Waisman (eds.): “Metal Fatigue,” McGraw-Hill, 1959.  
28. Heywood, R. B.: “Designing against Fatigue of Metals,” Reinhold, 1962.  
29. Yen, C. S., and T. J. Dolan: A Critical Review of the Criteria for Notch Sensitivity in Fatigue of Metals, *Univ. Ill., Exp. Sta. Bull.* 398, 1952.  
30. Mowbray, A. Q., Jr.: The Effect of Superposition of Stress Raisers on Members Subjected to Static or Repeated Loads, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal*, vol. 10, no. 2, 1953.  
31. Forrest, P. G.: “Fatigue of Metals,” Pergamon Press, Addison-Wesley Series in Metallurgy and Materials, 1962.  
32. International Conference on Fatigue of Metals, Institution of Mechanical Engineers, London, and American Society of Mechanical Engineers, New York, 1956.  
33. Harting, D. R.: The -S/N- Fatigue Life Gage: A Direct Means of Measuring Cumulative Fatigue Damage, *Exp. Mech.*, vol. 6, no. 2, February 1966.  
34. Descriptive literature, Micro-Measurements, Inc., Romulus, Mich.  
35. Roark, R. J., R. S. Hartenberg, and R. Z. Williams: The Influence of Form and Scale on Strength, *Univ. Wis. Exp. Ste. Bull.* 84, 1938.  
36. Battelle Memorial Institute: “Prevention of Fatigue of Metals,” John Wiley & Sons, 1941.  
37. Neuber, H.: “Theory of Notch Stresses,” J. W. Edwards, Publisher, Incorporated, 1946.  
38. Moore, H. F.: A Study of Size Effect and Notch Sensitivity in Fatigue Tests of Steel, *Proc. Am. Soc. Test. Mater.*, vol. 45, 1945.  
39. Metal Fatigue Damage: Mechanism, Detection, Avoidance, and Repair, *ASTM Spec. Tech. Publ.* 495, 1971.  
40. Cyclic Stress-Strain Behavior: Analysis, Experimentation, and Failure Prediction, *ASTM Spec. Tech. Publ.* 519, 1973.  
41. Effect of Notches on Low-Cycle Fatigue: A Literature Survey, *ASTM Spec. Tech. Publ.* 490, 1972.  
42. Peterson, H. E.: “Stress Concentration Factors,” John Wiley & Sons, 1974.  
43. Vicentini, V.: Stress-Concentration Factors for Superposed Notches, *Exp. Mech.*, vol. 7, no. 3, March 1967.  
44. Sandor, B. I.: “Fundamentals of Cyclic Stress and Strain,” The University of Wisconsin Press, 1972.