## SEC. 12.6]

# Columns and Other Compression Members

543

corresponding values is taken from Sechler’s corrected graph:

| $\lambda$ | 0.02 | 0.05 | 0.1 | 0.15 | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.5 | 0.6 | 0.8 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $C$ | 2.0 | 1.76 | 1.62 | 1.50 | 1.40 | 1.28 | 1.24 | 1.20 | 1.15 | 1.10 |

The effective width at failure can be calculated by the relation

$$
w=\frac{1}{2}Ct\sqrt{\frac{E}{\sigma_y}}=\frac{1}{2}Cb\lambda
$$

In the case of a cylindrical panel loaded parallel to the axis, the effective width at failure can be taken as approximately equal to that for a flat sheet, but the increase in the buckling stress in the central portion of the panel due to curvature must be taken into account. Sechler shows that the contribution of this central portion to the strength of the panel may be allowed for by using for $C$ in the formula $P=Ct^2\sqrt{E\sigma_y}$, a value given by

$$
C=C_f-0.3C_f\lambda\eta+0.3\eta
$$

where $\lambda=(t/b)\sqrt{E/\sigma_y}$, $\eta=(b/r)\sqrt{E/\sigma_y}$, and $C_f$, is the value of $C$ for a flat sheet, as given by the above table.

The above formulas and experimental data refer to single sheets supported along each edge. In calculating the load carried by a flat sheet with longitudinal stiffeners at any given stiffener stress $\sigma_s$, the effective width corresponding to that stress is found by

$$
w=b(0.25+0.91\lambda^2)
$$

where $\lambda=(t/b)\sqrt{E/\sigma_s}$ and $b=$ distance between the stiffeners (Ref. 23). The total load carried by $n$ stiffeners and the supported plate is then

$$
P=n(A_s+2wt)\sigma_s
$$

where $A_s$ is the section area of one stiffener. When $\sigma_s$ is the maximum unit load the stiffener can carry as a column, $P$ becomes the ultimate load for the reinforced sheet.

In calculating the ultimate load on a curved sheet with stiffeners, the strength of each unit or panel may be found by adding to the buckling strength of the central portion of the panel the strength of a column made up of the stiffener and the effective width of the attached sheet, this effective width being found by

$$
w=\frac{1}{2}C_ft\sqrt{\frac{E}{\sigma_c}}
$$

where $C_f$ is the flat-sheet coefficient corresponding to $\lambda=(t/b)\sqrt{E/\sigma_c}$ and $\sigma_c$ is the unit load that the stiffener-and-sheet column will carry