solving these simultaneously gives $m_1 = n_1 = \frac{1}{2}$. These values of $l_1$, $m_1$, and $n_1$ do not satisfy Eq. (2.3-19). However, all that remains is to normalize their values by dividing by $\sqrt{1^2 + \left(\frac{1}{2}\right)^2 + \left(\frac{1}{2}\right)^2} = \sqrt{6}/2$. Thus,$^\dagger$

$$
l_1 = (1)(2/\sqrt{6}) = \sqrt{6}/3
$$

$$
m_1 = (1/2)(2/\sqrt{6}) = \sqrt{6}/6
$$

$$
n_1 = (1/2)(2/\sqrt{6}) = \sqrt{6}/6
$$

Repeating the same procedure for $\sigma_2 = 1\text{ MPa}$ results in

$$
l_2 = \sqrt{3}/3, \qquad m_2 = -\sqrt{3}/3, \qquad n_2 = -\sqrt{3}/3
$$

and for $\sigma_3 = -2\text{ MPa}$

$$
l_3 = 0, \qquad m_3 = \sqrt{2}/2, \qquad n_3 = -\sqrt{2}/2
$$

If two of the principal stresses are equal, there will exist an infinite set of surfaces containing these principal stresses, where the normals of these surfaces are perpendicular to the direction of the third principal stress. If all three principal stresses are equal, a *hydrostatic* state of stress exists, and regardless of orientation, all surfaces contain the same principal stress with no shear stress.

## Principal Stresses, Plane Stress.

Considering the stress element shown in Fig. 2.11(a), the shear stresses on the surface with a normal in the $z$ direction are zero. Thus, the normal stress $\sigma_z = 0$ is a principal stress. The directions of the remaining two principal stresses will be in the $xy$ plane. If $\tau_{x'y'} = 0$ in Fig. 2.11(b), then $\sigma_{x'}$ would be a principal stress, $\sigma_p$ with $l_p = \cos \theta$, $m_p = \sin \theta$, and $n_p = 0$. For this case, only the first two of Eqs. (2.3-18) apply, and are

$$
(\sigma_x - \sigma_p)\cos\theta + \tau_{xy}\sin\theta = 0
$$

$$
\tau_{xy}\cos\theta + (\sigma_y - \sigma_p)\sin\theta = 0
\tag{2.3-21}
$$

As before, we eliminate the trivial solution of Eqs. (2.3-21) by setting the determinant of the coefficients of the directional cosines to zero. That is,

$$
\begin{vmatrix}
(\sigma_x - \sigma_p) & \tau_{xy} \\
\tau_{xy} & (\sigma_y - \sigma_p)
\end{vmatrix}
= (\sigma_x - \sigma_p)(\sigma_y - \sigma_p) - \tau_{xy}^2
$$

$$
= \sigma_p^2 - (\sigma_x + \sigma_y)\sigma_p + (\sigma_x\sigma_y - \tau_{xy}^2) = 0
\tag{2.3-22}
$$

---

$^\dagger$This method has one potential flaw. If $l_1$ is actually zero, then a solution would not result. If this happens, simply repeat the approach letting either $m_1$ or $n_1$ equal unity.