# Formulas for Stress and Strain

derives approximate solutions to this problem when the effect of friction is considered. He suggests a conservative expression for the *no-friction* condition: $P_o/AE = 2.67(k/r)^{1.2}$, where $P_o$ is the prebuckling hoop compressive force, $A$ is the hoop cross-sectional area, $E$ is the modulus of elasticity, $k$ is the radius of gyration of the cross section, and $r$ is the radius of the ring.

## EXAMPLE

A 4-in steel pipe is to be used as a column to carry 8000 lb of transformers centered axially on a platform 20 ft above the foundation. The factor of safety $FS$ is to be determined for the following conditions, based on elastic buckling of the column.

(a) The platform is supported only by the pipe fixed at the foundation.

(b) A $3 \frac{1}{2}$-in steel pipe is to be slipped into the top of the 4-in pipe a distance of 4 in, welded in place, and extended 10 ft to the ceiling above, where it will extend through a close-fitting hole in a steel plate.

(c) This condition is the same as in (b) except that the $3 \frac{1}{2}$-in pipe will be welded solidly into a heavy steel girder passing 10 ft above the platform.

**Solution.** A 4-in steel pipe has a cross-sectional area of 3.174 in$^2$ and a bending moment of inertia of 7.233 in$^4$. For a $3 \frac{1}{2}$-in pipe these are 2.68 in$^2$ and 4.788 in$^4$, respectively.

(a) This case is a column fixed at the bottom and free at the top with an end load only. In Table 15.1, case 1a, for $I_2/I_1 = 1.00$ and $P_2/P_1 = 0$, $K_1$ is given as 0.25. Therefore,

$$
P_1' = 0.25 \frac{\pi^2 30(10^6)(7.233)}{240^2} = 9295 \text{ lb}
$$

$$
FS = \frac{9295}{8000} = 1.162
$$

(b) This case is a column fixed at the bottom and pinned at the top with a load at a distance of two-thirds the 30-ft length from the bottom: $I_1 = 4.788$ in$^4$, $I_2 = 7.233$ in$^4$, and $I_2/I_1 = 1.511$. In Table 15.1, case 2d, for $E_2 I_2/E_1 I_1 = 1.5$, $P_1/P_2 = 0$, and $a/l = \frac{2}{3}$, $K_2$ is given as 6.58. Therefore,

$$
P_2' = 6.58 \frac{\pi^2 30(10^6)(4.788)}{360^2} = 72{,}000 \text{ lb}
$$

$$
FS = \frac{72{,}000}{8000} = 9
$$

(c) This case is a column fixed at both ends and subjected to an upward load on top and a downward load at the platform. The upward load depends to some extent on the stiffness of the girder to which the top is welded, and so we can only bracket the actual critical load. If we assume the girder is infinitely rigid and permits no vertical deflection of the top, the elongation of the upper 10 ft would equal the reduction in length of the lower 20 ft.