# Chapter 16

# Dynamic and Temperature Stresses

## 16.1 Dynamic Loadings; General Conditions

Dynamic loading was defined in Chap. 3 as any loading during which the parts of the body cannot be considered to be in static equilibrium. It was further pointed out that two kinds of dynamic loading can be distinguished: (1) that in which the body has imposed upon it a particular kind of motion involving known accelerations, and (2) impact, of which sudden loading may be considered a special case. In the following sections, specific cases of each kind of dynamic loading will be considered.

## 16.2 Body in a Known State of Motion

The acceleration $a$ of each particle of mass $dm$ being known, the effective force on each particle is $dm \times a$, directed like $a$. If to each particle a force equal and opposite to the effective force were applied, equilibrium would result. If then such reversed effective forces are assumed to be applied to all the constituent particles of the body, the body may be regarded as being in equilibrium under these forces and the actual forces (loads and reactions) that act upon it, and the resulting stresses can be found exactly as for a body at rest. The reversed effective forces are *imaginary* forces exerted *on* the particles but are equal to and directed like the actual reactions the particles exert on whatever gives them their acceleration, i.e., in general, on the rest of the body. Since these reactions are due to the inertia of the particles, they are called *inertia forces*, and the body may be thought of as loaded by these inertia forces. Similarly, any attached mass will exert on a body inertia forces equal and opposite to the forces which the body has to exert on the attached mass to accelerate it.

743