# Formulas for Stress and Strain

The Goodman diagrams described can be used for steel and for aluminum and titanium alloys, but for cast iron many test results fall below the straight line $AB$ and the lower curved line, suggested by Smith (Ref. 21), is preferred. Test results for magnesium alloys also sometimes fall below the straight line.

Figure 3.3 represents conditions where $\sigma_m$ is tensile. If $\sigma_m$ is compressive, $\sigma_a$ is increased; and for values of $\sigma_m$ less than the compression yield strength, the relationship is represented approximately by the straight line $AB$ extended to the left with the same slope. When the mean stress and alternating stress are both torsional, $\sigma_a$ is practically constant until $\sigma_m$ exceeds the yield strength in shear; and for alternating bending combined with mean torsion, the same thing is true. But when $\sigma_m$ is tensile and $\sigma_a$ is torsional, $\sigma_a$ diminishes as $\sigma_m$ increases in almost the manner represented by the Goodman line. When stress concentration is to be taken into account, the accepted practice is to apply $K_f$ (or $K_t$ if $K_f$ is not known) to $\sigma_a$ only, not to $\sigma_m$ (for $K_t$ and $K_f$, see Sec. 3.10).

**Residual stress.** Since residual stresses, whether deliberately introduced or merely left over from manufacturing processes, will influence the *mean* stress, their effects can be accounted for. One should be careful, however, not to expect the beneficial effects of a residual stress if during the expected life of a structure it will encounter overloads sufficient to change the residual-stress distribution. Sandor (Ref. 44) discusses this in detail and points out that an occasional overload might be beneficial in some cases.

The several modified forms of the Goodman diagram are used for predicting the stress levels which will form cracks, but other more extensive plots such as the Haigh diagram (Ref. 45) can be used to predict in addition the stress levels for which cracks, once formed, will travel, fatigue lives, etc.

**Combined stress.** No one of the theories of failure in Sec. 3.7 can be applied to all fatigue loading conditions. The *maximum-distortion-energy theory* seems to be conservative in most cases, however. Reference 18 gives a detailed description of an acceptable procedure for designing for fatigue under conditions of combined stress. The procedure described also considers the effect of mean stress on the cyclic stress range. Three criteria for failure are discussed: *gross yielding*, *crack initiation*, and *crack propagation*. An extensive discussion of fatigue under combined stress is found in Refs. 27, 31, and 45.

**Stress history.** A very important question and one that has been given much attention is the influence of previous stressing on fatigue