## SEC. 16.6] Dynamic and Temperature Stresses 763

taken as 0.027 in$^2$/s at moderate temperatures.) [At the inner and outer surfaces, the longitudinal stresses are equal to the tangential stresses (Ref. 9).] The stated conditions in this case 17 as well as those in cases 19 to 21 are difficult to create in a short time except for small parts heated or cooled in liquids.

18. A solid rod of circular section is heated or cooled symmetrically with respect to its axis, the condition being uniform along the length, so that the temperature is a function of $r$ (the distance from the axis) only. The stresses are equal to those given by the formulas for case 12 divided by $1 - \nu$ (Ref. 7).

19. If the solid rod of case 18 has the temperature of its convex surface raised at the uniform rate of $m^\circ$/s, then, after a steady rate of temperature rise has been reached throughout, the radial, tangential, and longitudinal stresses at any point a distance $r$ from the center are

$$
\sigma_r = \frac{E \gamma m}{1 - \nu} \frac{c^2 - r^2}{16A}
$$

$$
\sigma_t = \frac{E \gamma m}{1 - \nu} \frac{c^2 - 3r^2}{16A}
$$

$$
\sigma_x = \frac{E \gamma m}{1 - \nu} \frac{c^2 - 2r^2}{8A}
$$

Here $A$ has the same meaning as in case 17 and $c$ is the radius of the shaft, [A negative result indicates compression, a positive result tension (Ref. 9).]

20. A solid sphere of radius $c$ is considered instead of a solid cylinder but with all other conditions kept the same as in case 19. The radial and tangential stresses produced at any point a distance $r$ from the center are

$$
\sigma_r = \frac{E \gamma m}{15A(1 - \nu)} (c^2 - r^2)
$$

$$
\sigma_t = \frac{E \gamma m}{15A(1 - \nu)} (c^2 - 2r^2)
$$

[A negative result indicates compression, a positive result tension (Ref. 9).]

21. If the sphere is hollow, with outer radius $c$ and inner radius $b$, and with all other conditions kept as stated in case 17, the stresses at