# 17.2 Stress Concentration Reduction Methods

The nominal stress at the minor radius of the step shaft is

$$
\sigma_{\text{nom}}=\frac{32M}{\pi(D-2h)^3}=\frac{32(500)}{\pi[50-2(9)]^3(10^{-3})^3}=155.4(10^6)\ \text{N/m}^2=155.4\ \text{MPa}
$$

If $\sigma_{\max}$ is in the elastic range, then

$$
\sigma_{\max}=K_t\sigma_{\text{nom}}=1.780(155.4)=276.6\ \text{MPa}
$$

However, as one can see from the stress–strain plot that this exceeds the elastic limit of 200 MPa. Thus, $\sigma_{\max}$ must be determined from Neuber’s equation.

The modulus of elasticity in the elastic range of the material is $E=20$ GPa. Thus, the nominal strain is found to be $\epsilon_{\text{nom}}=\sigma_{\text{nom}}/E=155.4(10^6)/20(10^9)=77.7(10^{-5})$. Thus,

$$
K_t^2\,\sigma_{\text{nom}}\epsilon_{\text{nom}}=(1.780)^2(155.4)(77.7)(10^{-5})=0.3826\ \text{MPa}
$$

From the tabulated data, the product $\sigma\ \epsilon$ can be tabulated as a function of $\sigma$. This results in the following:

| $\sigma$ (MPa) | 0 | 50 | 100 | 150 | 200 | 235 | 252 | 263 | 267 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $\sigma\ \epsilon$ (MPa) | 0 | 0.0125 | 0.05 | 0.1125 | 0.2 | 0.29375 | 0.378 | 0.46025 | 0.534 |

| $\sigma$ (MPa) | 272 | 276 | 279 | 282 | 285 | 287 | 289 | 290 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $\sigma\ \epsilon$ (MPa) | 0.612 | 0.69 | 0.76725 | 0.846 | 0.92625 | 1.0045 | 1.08375 | 1.16 |

Since, based on Eq. (17.4), we are looking for the value of $\sigma_{\max}\ \epsilon_{\max}=0.3826$, we will interpolate $\sigma\ \epsilon$ between 0.378 and 0.46025. Thus,

$$
\frac{\sigma_{\max}-252}{0.3826-0.378}=\frac{263-252}{0.46025-0.378}
$$

This yields $\sigma_{\max}=252.6$ MPa.

For dynamic problems where loading is cycling, the fatigue stress concentration factor is more appropriate to use. See Sec. 3.20 for a discussion of this.

Intuitive methods such as the *flow analogy* are sometimes helpful to the analyst faced with the task of reducing stress concentrations. When dealing with a situation where it is necessary to reduce the cross section abruptly, the resulting stress concentration can often be mini-