SEC. 7.7] Tension, Compression, Shear, and Combined Stress 121

The relations between $\tau$, $\sigma$, and the strains represented in Fig. 7.5(b) make it possible to express $G$ in terms of $E$ and Poisson's ratio, $\nu$, for a linear, homogeneous, isotropic material. The relationship is

$$
G = \frac{E}{2(1 + \nu)}
$$

(7.5-4)

From known values of $E$ (determined by a tensile test) and $G$ (determined by a torsion test) it is thus possible to calculate $\nu$.

## 7.6 Cases of Direct Shear Loading

By *direct shear loading* is meant any case in which a member is acted on by equal, parallel, and opposite forces so nearly colinear that the material between them is subjected primarily to shear stress, with negligible bending. Examples of this are provided by rivets, bolts, and pins, shaft splines and keys, screw threads, short lugs, etc. These are not really cases of pure shear; the actual stress distribution is complex and usually indeterminate because of the influence of fit and other factors. In designing such parts, however, it is usually assumed that the shear is uniformly distributed on the critical section, and since working stresses are selected with due allowance for the approximate nature of this assumption, the practice is usually permissible. In *beams* subject to transverse shear, this assumption cannot be made as a rule.

Shear and other stresses in rivets, pins, keys, etc., are discussed more fully in Chap. 14, shear stresses in beams in Chap. 8, and shear stresses in torsion members in Chap. 10.

## 7.7 Combined Stress

Under certain circumstances of loading, a body is subjected to a combination of tensile and compressive stresses (usually designated as *biaxial or triaxial stress*) or to a combination of tensile, compressive, and shear stresses (usually designated as *combined stress*). For example, the material at the inner surface of a thick cylindrical pressure vessel is subjected to triaxial stress (radial compression, longitudinal tension, and circumferential tension), and a shaft simultaneously bent and twisted is subjected to combined stress (longitudinal tension or compression, and torsional shear).

In most instances the normal and shear stresses on each of three mutually perpendicular planes are due to flexure, axial loading, torsion, beam shear, or some combination of these which separately can be calculated readily by the appropriate formulas. Normal stresses arising from different load conditions acting on the same plane can be