# Formulas for Stress and Strain

Although the position of the maximum moment depends upon the position of the load, the maximum moment in this case would be expected to be under the load since the load is some distance from the free end:

$$
M=-\gamma_A 2D\lambda^2 F_3-\psi_A D\lambda F_4+LT_M
$$

and at $x=a$, $F_3=2.37456$, $F_4=2.64573$, and $LT_M=0$ since $x$ is not greater than $a$. Therefore,

$$
M_{\max}=-(0.0000259)(2)(344)(4.0^2)(2.375)-(-0.00319)(344)(4.0)(2.646)
$$

$$
=10.92\ \text{lb-in/in}
$$

At the cross section under the load and on the inside surface the following stresses are present:

$$
\sigma_1=0,
$$

$$
\sigma_2=\frac{-0.001(30)(10^6)}{2.065}=-14{,}500\ \text{lb/in}^2
$$

$$
\sigma_1'=\frac{6(10.92)}{0.05^2}=26{,}200\ \text{lb/in}^2,
$$

$$
\sigma_2'=0.30(26{,}200)=7{,}860\ \text{lb/in}^2
$$

The small change in the maximum stress produced in this shorter tube points out how localized the effect of a load on a shell can be. Had the radial load been the same, however, instead of the radial deflection, a greater difference might have been noted and the stress $\sigma_2$ would have increased in magnitude instead of decreasing.

**3.** A cylindrical aluminum shell is 10 in long and 15 in in diameter and must be designed to carry an internal pressure of 300 lb/in$^2$ without exceeding a maximum tensile stress of 12,000 lb/in$^2$. The ends are capped with massive flanges, which are sufficiently clamped to the shell to effectively resist any radial or rotational deformation at the ends. Given: $E=10(10^6)$ lb/in$^2$ and $\nu=0.3$.

**First solution.** Case 1c from Table 13.1 and cases 1 and 3 or cases 8 and 10 from Table 13.2 can be superimposed to find the radial end load and the end moment which will make the slopes and deflections at both ends zero. Figure 13.4 shows the loadings applied to the shell. First we evaluate the necessary constants:

$$
R=7.5\ \text{in,} \qquad l=10\ \text{in,} \qquad D=\frac{10(10^6)t^3}{12(1-0.3^2)}=915{,}800t^3
$$

$$
\lambda=\left[\frac{3(1-0.3^2)}{7.5^2t^2}\right]^{1/4}=\frac{0.4694}{t^{0.5}}, \qquad \lambda l=\frac{4.694}{t^{0.5}}
$$

Since the thickness is unknown at this step in the calculation, we can only estimate whether the shell must be considered long or short, i.e., whether the loads at one end will have any influence on the deformations at the other. To make an estimate of this effect we can calculate the wall thickness necessary for just the internal pressure. From case 1c of Table 13.1, the value of the hoop stress $\sigma_2=qR/t$ can be equated to 12,000 lb/in$^2$ and the expression solved for the thickness:

$$
t=\frac{300(7.5)}{12{,}000}=0.1875\ \text{in}
$$

Using this value for $t$ gives $\lambda l=10.84$, which would be a very long shell.