SEC. 6.2] Experimental Methods 95

**Strain Gage Corrections.** There are many types of corrections that may be necessary to obtain accurate strain gage results (see Refs. 27 and 28). Two fundamental corrections that are necessary correct the indicated strain errors due to strains on the specimen perpendicular (transverse) to the longitudinal axis of the gage and changes in temperature of the gage installation. With each strain gage, the manufacturer provides much information on the performance of the gage, such as its sensitivity to longitudinal and transverse strain and how the sensitivity of the gage behaves relative to temperature changes.

*(b) Transverse sensitivity corrections.* The strain sensitivity of a single straight uniform length of conductor in a uniform *uniaxial strain field* $\varepsilon$ in the longitudinal direction of the conductor is given by Eq. (6.2-3), which is $S_a = (\Delta R/R)/\varepsilon$. In a general strain field, there will be strains perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the conductor *(transverse strains)*. Due to the width of the conductor elements and the geometric configuration of the conductor in the gage pattern, the transverse strains will also effect a change in resistance in the conductor. This is not desirable, since only the effect of the strain in the direction of the gage length is being sought.

To further complicate things, the sensitivity of the strain gage provided by the gage manufacturer is *not* based on a uniaxial strain field, but that of a uniaxial *stress* field in a tensile test specimen. For a uniaxial stress field let the axial and transverse strains be $\varepsilon_a$ and $\varepsilon_t$ respectively. The sensitivity provided by the gage manufacturer, called the *gage factor* $S_g$, is defined as $S_g = (\Delta R/R)\varepsilon_a$, where under a uniaxial stress field, $\varepsilon_t = -\nu_0 \varepsilon_a$. Thus

$$
\frac{\Delta R}{R} = S_g \varepsilon_a, \qquad \text{with} \qquad \varepsilon_t = -\nu_0 \varepsilon_a
\tag{6.2-5}
$$

The term $\nu_0$ is Poisson's ratio of the material on which the manufacturer's gage factor was measured, and is normally taken to be 0.285. If the gage is used under conditions where the transverse strain is $\varepsilon_t = -\nu \varepsilon_a$, then the equation $\Delta R/R = S_g \varepsilon_a$ would yield exact results. If $\varepsilon_t \ne -\nu_0 \varepsilon_a$, then some error will occur. This error depends on the sensitivity of the gage to transverse strain and the deviation of the ratio of $\varepsilon_t/\varepsilon_a$ from $-\nu_0$. The strain gage manufacturer generally supplies a transverse sensitivity coefficient, $K_t$, defined as $S_t/S_a$, where $S_t$ is the transverse sensitivity factor. One cannot correct the indicated strain from a single strain reading. Thus it is necessary to have multiple strain readings from that of a strain gage rosette. Table 6.2 at the end of the chapter gives equations for the corrected strain values of the three most widely used strain gage rosettes. Corrected