# Formulas for Stress and Strain

service, the load is increased progressively up to its maximum value, is maintained at that maximum value for only a limited time, and is not reapplied often enough to make fatigue a consideration. The ultimate strength, elastic limit, yield point, yield strength, and modulus of elasticity of a material are usually determined by short-time static testing at room temperature.

2. *Long-time static loading.* The maximum load is applied gradually and maintained. In testing, it is maintained for a sufficient time to enable its probable final effect to be predicted; in service, it is maintained continuously or intermittently during the life of the structure. The creep, or flow characteristics, of a material and its probable permanent strength are determined by long-time static testing at the temperatures prevailing under service conditions. (See Sec. 3.6.)

3. *Repeated loading.* Typically, a load or stress is applied and wholly or partially removed or reversed repeatedly. This type of loading is important if high stresses are repeated for a few cycles or if relatively lower stresses are repeated many times; it is discussed under *Fatigue.* (See Sec. 3.8.)

4. *Dynamic loading.* The circumstances are such that the rate of change of momentum of the parts must be taken into account. One such condition may be that the parts are given definite accelerations corresponding to a controlled motion, such as the constant acceleration of a part of a rotating member or the repeated accelerations suffered by a portion of a connecting rod. As far as stress effects are concerned, these loadings are treated as virtually static and the inertia forces (Sec. 16.2) are treated exactly as though they were ordinary static loads.

A second type of *quasi-static* loading, *quick static loading,* can be typified by the rapid burning of a powder charge in a gun barrel. Neither the powder, gas, nor any part of the barrel acquires appreciable radial momentum; therefore equilibrium may be considered to exist at any instant and the maximum stress produced in the gun barrel is the same as though the powder pressure had developed gradually.

In static loading and the two types of dynamic loading just described, the loaded member is required to resist a definite *force.* It is important to distinguish this from *impact loading,* where the loaded member is usually required to absorb a definite amount of *energy.*

Impact loading can be divided into two general categories. In the first case a relatively large slow-moving mass strikes a less massive beam or bar and the *kinetic energy* of the moving mass is assumed to be converted into *strain energy* in the beam. All portions of the beam