SEC. 15.6] Elastic Stability 741

56. Anderson, J. M., and N. S. Trahair: Stability of Monosymmetric Beams and Cantilevers, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 98, no. ST1, 1972.  
57. Morrison, T. G.: Lateral Buckling of Constrained Beams, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 98, no. ST3, 1972.  
58. Vijayakumar, K., and C. V. Joga Rao: Buckling of Polar Orthotropic Annular Plates, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 97, no. EM3, 1971.  
59. Amon, R., and O. E. Widera: Stability of Edge-Reinforced Circular Plate, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 97, no. EM5, 1971.  
60. Shuleshko, P.: Solution of Buckling Problems by Reduction Method, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 90, no. EM3, 1964.  
61. Ashton, J. E.: Stability of Clamped Skew Plates Under Combined Loads, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 36, no. 1, 1969.  
62. Robinson, N. I.: Buckling of Parabolic and Semi-Elliptic Plates, *AIAA J.*, vol. 7, no. 6, 1969.  
63. Srinivas, S., and A. K. Rao: Buckling of Thick Rectangular Plates, *AIAA J.*, vol. 7, no. 8, 1969.  
64. Durvasula, S.: Buckling of Clamped Skew Plates, *AIAA J.*, vol. 8, no. 1, 1970.  
65. Roberts, S. B.: Buckling and Vibrations of Polygonal and Rhombic Plates, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 97, no. EM2, 1971.  
66. Mikulas, M. M., Jr., and M. Stein, Buckling of a Cylindrical Shell Loaded by a Pre-Tensioned Filament Winding, *AIAA J.*, vol. 3, no. 3, 1965.  
67. Hoff, N. J.: Low Buckling Stresses of Axially Compressed Circular Cylindrical Shells of Finite Length, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 32, no. 3, 1965.  
68. Hoff, N. J., and L. W. Rehfield: Buckling of Axially Compressed Circular Cylindrical Shells at Stresses Smaller Than the Classical Critical Value, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 32, no. 3, 1965.  
69. Yao, J. C., and W. C. Jenkins: Buckling of Elliptic Cylinders under Normal Pressure, *AIAA J.*, vol. 8, no. 1, 1970.  
70. Carlson, R. L., R. L. Sendelbeck, and N. J. Hoff: Experimental Studies of the Buckling of Complete Spherical Shells, Experimental Mechanics, *J. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 7, no. 7, 1967.  
71. Wu, M. T., and Shun Cheng: Nonlinear Asymmetric Buckling of Truncated Spherical Shells, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 37, no. 3, 1970.  
72. Singer, J.: Buckling of Circular Cortical Shells under Axisymmetrical External Pressure, *J. Mech. Eng. Sci.*, vol. 3, no. 4, 1961.  
73. Newman, M., and E. L. Reiss: Axisymmetric Snap Buckling of Conical Shells (in Ref. 42), p. 45.  
74. Singer, J.: Buckling of Orthotropic and Stiffened Conical Shells (in Ref. 42), p. 463.  
75. Seide, P.: On the Stability of Internally Pressurized Conical Shells under Axial Compression, *Proc. 4th U.S. Natl. Cong. Appl. Mech.*, June 1962.  
76. Weingarten, V. I.: Stability of Internally Pressurized Conical Shells under Torsion, *AIAA J.*, vol. 2, no. 10, 1964.  
77. Hausrath, A. H., and F. A. Dittoe; Development of Design Strength Levels for the Elastic Stability of Monocoque Cones under Axial Compression (in Ref. 42), p. 45.  
78. Seide, P.: A Survey of Buckling Theory and Experiment for Circular Conical Shells of constant Thickness (in Ref. 42), p. 401.  
79. Radkowski, P. P.: Elastic Instability of Conical Shells under Combined Loading (in Ref. 42), p. 427.  
80. Weingarten, V. I., E. J. Morgan, and P. Seide: Elastic Stability of Thin-Walled Cylindrical and Conical Shells under Axial Compression, *AIAA J.*, vol. 3, no. 3, 1965.  
81. Weingarten, V. I., and P. Seide: Elastic Stability of Thin-Walled Cylindrical and Conical Shells under Combined External Pressure and Axial Compression, *AIAA J.*, vol. 3, no. 5, 1965.  
82. Weingarten, V. I., E. J. Morgan, and P. Seide: Elastic Stability of Thin-Walled Cylindrical and Conical Shells under Combined Internal Pressure and Axial Compression, *AIAA J.*, vol. 3, no. 6, 1965.  
83. Tani, J., and N. Yamaki: Buckling of Truncated Conical Shells under Axial Compression, *AIAA J.*, vol. 8, no. 3, 1970.  
84. Baruch, M., O. Harari, and J. Singer: Low Buckling Loads of Axially Compressed Conical Shells, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 37, no. 2, 1970.