# Glossary: Definitions

indefinitely large number of cycles without producing fracture (see Sec. 3.8).

**Endurance ratio:** Ratio of the endurance limit to the ultimate static tensile strength.

**Endurance strength:** The maximum stress amplitude of a purely reversing stress that can be applied to a material for a specific number of cycles without producing fracture. (Compare with *Endurance limit.*)

**Energy of rupture (modulus of toughness):** The work done per unit volume in producing fracture. It is not practicable to establish a specific energy of rupture value for a given material, because the result obtained depends upon the form and proportions of the test specimen and the manner of loading. As determined by similar tests on similar specimens, the energy of rupture affords a criterion for comparing the toughness of different materials.

**Equivalent bending moment:** A bending moment that, acting alone, would produce in a circular shaft a normal (tensile or compressive) stress of the same magnitude as the maximum normal stress produced by a given bending moment and a given twisting moment acting simultaneously.

**Equivalent twisting moment:** A twisting moment that, acting alone, would produce in a circular shaft a shear stress of the same magnitude as the maximum shear stress produced by a given twisting moment and a given bending moment acting simultaneously.

**Factor of safety:** The intent of the factor of safety is to provide a safeguard to failure. The term usually refers to the ratio of the load that would cause failure of a member or structure to the load that is imposed upon it in service. The term may also be used to represent the ratio of the failure to service value of speed, deflection, temperature variation, or other stress-producing quantities. (Compare with *Allowable stress; Margin of safety.*)

**Fatigue:** The fracture of a material under many repetitions of a stress at a level considerably less than the ultimate strength of the material.

**Fatigue strength:** See *Endurance limit.*

**Fixed (clamped):** A support condition at the end of a beam or column or at the edge of a plate or shell that prevents *rotation and transverse displacement* of the edge of the neutral surface but permits *longitudinal displacement.* (Compare *Guided; Held; Simply-supported.*)

**Flexural center:** See *Shear center.*