# Formulas for Stress and Strain

Instead of the symbols $M, L, t$, and $F$, we can use the names of the *units* in which the quantities are to be expressed. Thus the above equation may be written

$$
\text{inches}=\frac{(\text{pounds}/\text{inch})(\text{inches}^4)}{(\text{pounds}/\text{inches}^2)(\text{inches}^4)}=\text{inches}
$$

This practice is especially convenient if it is desired to change units. Thus it might be desired to write the above formula so that $y$ is given in inches when $l$ is expressed in feet. It is only necessary to write

$$
\text{inches}=\frac{1}{8}\frac{(\text{pounds}/\text{inch})(\text{feet}\times 12)^4}{(\text{pounds}/\text{inches}^2)\text{inches}^4}
$$

and the coefficient is thus found to be 2592 instead of $\frac{1}{8}$.

By what amounts to a reversal of the checking process described, it is often possible to determine the way in which a certain term or terms should appear in a formula provided the other terms involved are known. For example, consider the formula for the critical load of the Euler column. Familiarity with the theory of flexure suggests that this load will be directly proportional to $E$ and $I$. It is evident that the length $l$ will be involved in some way as yet unknown. It is also reasonable to assume that the load is independent of the deflection since both the bending moment and the resisting moment would be expected to vary in direct proportion to the deflection. We can then write $P = kEIl^a$, where $k$ is a dimensionless constant that must be found in some other way and the exponent $a$ shows how $l$ enters the expression. Writing the equation dimensionally and omitting $k$, we have

$$
F=\frac{F}{L^2}L^4L^a \qquad \text{or} \qquad L^2=L^{4+a}
$$

Equating the exponents of $L$ (as required for homogeneity) we find $a=-2$, showing that the original formula should be $P=kEI/l^2$. Note that the derivation of a formula in this way requires at least a partial knowledge of the relationship that is to be expressed.

A much more detailed discussion of similitude, modeling, and dimensional analysis can be found in Chaps. 15 and 8 of Refs. 6 and 7, respectively. Reference 6 includes a section where the effect of Poisson's ratio on the stresses in two- and three-dimensional problems is discussed. Since Poisson's ratio is dimensionless, it would have to be the same in model and prototype for perfect modeling and this generally is not possible. References to work on this problem are included and will be helpful.