**SEC. 9.1]** **Curved Beams** **271**

Equation (9.1-4) gives conservative answers for the peak values of shear stress in rectangular sections when compared to elasticity solutions. The locations of peak shear stress are the same in both analyses, and the error in magnitude is about 1%.

## Radial stresses due to moment $M$ and normal force $N$.

Owing to the radial components of the fiber stresses, radial stresses are present in a curved beam; these are tensile when the bending moment tends to straighten the beam and compressive under the reverse condition. A mechanics-of-materials solution may be developed by summing radial forces and summing forces perpendicular to the radius using the element in Fig. 9.2.

$$
\sigma_r = \frac{R-e}{t_r A e r}\left[(M-NR)\left(\int_b^r \frac{dA_\perp}{r_1}-\frac{A_r}{R-e}\right)+\frac{N}{r}(RA_r-Q_r)\right]
\qquad (9.1\text{-}6)
$$

Equation (9.1-6) is as accurate for radial stress as is Eq. (9.1-4) for shear stress when used for a rectangular cross section and compared to an elasticity solution. However, the complexity of Eq. (9.1-6) coupled with the fact that the stresses due to $N$ are generally smaller than those due to $M$ leads to the usual practice of omitting the terms involving $N$. This leads to the equation for radial stress found in many texts, such as Refs. 29 and 36.

$$
\sigma_r = \frac{R-e}{t_r A e r} M \left(\int_b^r \frac{dA_\perp}{r_1}-\frac{A_r}{R-e}\right)
\qquad (9.1\text{-}7)
$$

Again care must be taken when using Eqs. (9.1-4), (9.1-6), and (9.1-7) to use an accurate value for $e$ as explained above in the discussion following Eq. (9.1-3).

Radial stress is usually not a major consideration in compact sections for it is smaller than the circumferential stress and is low where the circumferential stresses are large. However, in flanged sections with thin webs the radial stress may be large at the junction of the flange and web, and the circumferential stress is also large at this position. This can lead to excessive shear stress and the possible yielding if the radial and circumferential stresses are of opposite sign. A large compressive radial stress in a thin web may also lead to a buckling of the web. Corrections for curved-beam formulas for sections having thin flanges are discussed in the next paragraph but corrections are also needed if a section has a *thin* web and *very thick* flanges. Under these conditions the individual flanges tend to rotate about their own neutral axes and larger radial and shear stresses are developed. Broughton et al. discuss this configuration in Ref. 31.