## 8.5 Beams on Elastic Foundations

No rigid-body rotation is necessary for member 3 since the left end has the same slope as the lower end of member 1, which is as it should be.

For member 2 as shown in Fig. 8.10(d): Use case 3e from Table 8.1 to get

$$
\theta_D=\frac{-605.35}{6(7\cdot10^6)(150)}[2(150)^2-0+0]=-0.004324\ \text{rad}
$$

$$
\theta_B=\frac{605.35}{6(7\cdot10^6)(150)}[(150)^2-0]=0.002162\ \text{rad}
$$

To match the slope at the right end of member 3, a rigid-body counterclockwise rotation of $0.005013 + 0.00432 = 0.009337$ rad must be given to member 2. This creates a slope $\psi_B = 0.009337 + 0.002162 = 0.01150$ rad counterclockwise and a horizontal deflection at the top end of $0.009337(150) = 1.401$ mm to the left. This matches the horizontal deflection of the lower end of member 1 as a final check on the calculations.

To verify that the effect of axial load on the bending deformations of the members is negligible, the Euler load on the longest member is found to be more than 100 times the actual load. Using the formulas from Table 8.8 would not produce significantly different results from those in Table 8.1.

## 8.5 Beams on Elastic Foundations

There are cases in which beams are supported on foundations which develop essentially continuous reactions that are proportional at each position along the beam to the deflection of the beam at that position. This is the reason for the name *elastic foundation*. Solutions are available (Refs. 41 and 42) which consider that the foundation transmits shear forces within the foundation such that the reaction force is not directly proportional to the deflection at a given location but instead is proportional to a function of the deflections near the given location; these solutions are much more difficult to use and are not justified in many cases since the linearity of most foundations is open to question anyway.

It is not necessary, in fact, that a foundation be continuous. If a discontinuous foundation, such as is encountered in the support provided a rail by the cross ties, is found to have at least three concentrated reaction forces in every half-wavelength of the deflected beam, then the solutions provided in this section are adequate.

Table 8.5 provides formulas for the reactions and deflections at the left end of a finite-length beam on an elastic foundation as well as formulas for the shear, moment, slope, and deflection at any point $x$ along the length. The format used in presenting the formulas is designed to facilitate programming for use on a digital computer or programmable calculator.