Summing the results from case 7c with correction terms and from case 7b produces $\Delta R_A = 576.38(10^{-6})$, $\psi_A = -674.84(10^{-6})$, $\sigma_1 = -54.945$, $\sigma_2 = 98.792$, $\sigma'_1 = 1227.8$, and $\sigma'_2 = 269.5$.

The junction moves radially outward a distance of 0.00058 in, and the junction meridian on the right in Fig. 13.15 rotates 0.000675 rad clockwise. On the outside of the cone at the junction, the circumferential stress is 368.3 lb/in$^2$ and the meridional stress is 1173 lb/in$^2$.

## 13.5 Thin Shells of Revolution under External Pressure

All formulas given in Tables 13.1 and 13.3 for thin vessels under distributed pressure are for internal pressure, but they will apply equally to cases of external pressure if $q$ is given a negative sign. The formulas in Table 13.2 for distributed pressure are for external pressure in order to correspond to similar loadings for beams on elastic foundations in Chap. 8. It should be noted with care that the application of external pressure may cause an instability failure due to stresses lower than the elastic limit, and in such a case the formulas in this chapter do not apply. This condition is discussed in Chap. 15, and formulas for the critical pressures or stresses producing instability are given in Table 15.2.

A vessel of moderate thickness may collapse under external pressure at stresses just below the yield point, its behavior being comparable to that of a short column. The problem of ascertaining the pressure that produces failure of this kind is of special interest in connection with cylindrical vessels and pipe. For external loading such as that in Table 13.1, case 1c, the external collapsing pressure can be given by

$$
q'=\frac{t}{R}\frac{\sigma_y}{1+(4\sigma_y/E)(R/t)^2}
$$

(see Refs. 1, 7, and 8)

In Refs. 8 and 9, charts are given for designing vessels under external pressure.

A special instability problem should be considered when designing long cylindrical vessels or even *relatively short corrugated tubes* under internal pressure. Haringx (Refs. 54 and 55) and Flügge (Ref. 5) have shown that vessels of this type will buckle laterally if the ends are restrained against longitudinal displacement and if the product of the internal pressure and the cross-sectional area reaches the Euler load for the column as a whole. For cylindrical shells this is seldom a critical factor, but for corrugated tubes or bellows this is recognized as a so-called *squirming instability*. To determine the Euler load for a bellows, an equivalent thin-walled circular cross section can be established which will have a radius equal to the mean radius of the bellows and a product $Et$, for which the equivalent cylinder will have the same