# Chapter 15

# Elastic Stability

## 15.1 General Considerations

Failure through elastic instability has been discussed briefly in Sec. 3.13, where it was pointed out that it may occur when the bending or twisting effect of an applied load is proportional to the deformation it produces. In this chapter, formulas for the critical load or critical unit stress at which such failure occurs are given for a wide variety of members and conditions of loading.

Such formulas can be derived mathematically by integrating the differential equation of the elastic curve or by equating the strain energy of bending to the work done by the applied load in the corresponding displacement of its point of application, the form of the elastic curve being assumed when unknown. Of all possible forms of the curve, that which makes the critical load a minimum is the correct one; but almost any reasonable assumption (consistent with the boundary conditions) can be made without gross error resulting, and for this reason the strain-energy method is especially adapted to the approximate solution of difficult cases. A very thorough discussion of the general problem, with detailed solutions of many specified cases, is given in Timoshenko and Gere (Ref. 1), from which many of the formulas in this chapter are taken. Formulas for many cases are also given in Refs. 35 and 36; in addition Ref. 35 contains many graphs of numerically evaluated coefficients.

At one time, most of the problems involving elastic stability were of academic interest only since engineers were reluctant to use compression members so slender as to fail by buckling at elastic stresses and danger of corrosion interdicted the use of very thin material in exposed structures. The requirements for minimum-weight construction in the fields of aerospace and transportation, however, have given great

709