446 # Formulas for Stress and Strain [CHAP. 11

moment of inertia about the $x$ axis through this centroid must have been evaluated. This was done as follows.

$$
A = 10(10) - \frac{9(6)}{2} = 73 \,\text{cm}^2
$$

$$
\bar{y} = \frac{100(5) - 27(7)}{73} = 4.26 \,\text{cm}, \qquad \bar{x} = \frac{100(5) - 27(8)}{73} = 3.89 \,\text{cm}
$$

$$
I_{x1} = \frac{10^4}{12} + 100(5 - 4.26)^2 - \frac{6(9^3)}{36} - 27(7 - 4.26)^2 = 563.9 \,\text{cm}^4
$$

First calculate the value of $w$ which will put into equilibrium at a radius of 88 cm the vertical load of 3000 N/cm at a radius of 82 cm. This is 2795 N/cm. Next convert all these loads to the values they will have when applied to a free-body diagram consisting of a segment that is 1 cm long at the centroidal radius of 83.89 cm. For the loads on the top of the free-body diagram the length upon which they act is $82/83.89 = 0.9775$ cm so that the desired couple is then $2500(0.9775) = 2444$ N-cm/cm. All the remaining forces were computed in a similar manner.

Using the loads shown in Fig. 11.7($b$), the clockwise moment about the centroid is found to be $M = 2932(6) - 2444 - 244(10 - 4.26) = 13{,}747$ N-cm. This gives the section a clockwise rotation of $\theta = 13{,}747(83.89^2)/20.7(10^6)(563.9) = .00829$ rad. All material in the section lying above the $x_1$ axis will then move toward the central axis and be in compression. The stresses at positions $A$ and $B$ will then be $\sigma = -13{,}747(83.89)(5.74)/563.9 = -11{,}739$ N/cm$^2$. Similarly, the stresses at positions $F$ and $G$ are $\sigma = 13{,}747(83.89)(4.26)/563.9 = 8712$ N/cm$^2$.

In addition to the stresses caused by the rotation of the cross section, the radially outward shear force of 244 N/cm produces everywhere in the cross section a circumferential tensile stress of $\sigma = 244(83.89)/73 = 280$ N/cm$^2$. Note that a tacit assumption has been made that no radially directed friction forces exist at the bottom of the ring.

## 11.10 Bending of Uniform-Thickness Plates with Straight Boundaries

**Formulas.** No general expression for deflection as a function of position in a plate is given since solutions for plates with straight boundaries are generally obtained numerically for specific ratios of plate dimensions, load location, and boundary conditions. In a few instances Poisson's ratio is included in the expressions given, but in most cases a specific value of Poisson's ratio has been used in obtaining the tabulated numerical results and the value used is indicated. Reference 47 includes results obtained using several values of Poisson's ratio and shows the range of values that can be expected as this ratio is changed. Errors in deflection should not exceed 7 or 8% and in maximum stress 15% for values of Poisson's ratio in the range from 0.15 to 0.30. Since much of the data are obtained using finite-difference approximations for the plate differential equations and a limited number of elements have been used, it is not always possible to