**SEC. 9.1]** **Curved Beams** **269**

Equations (9.1-1) and (9.1-2) are based on derivations that neglect the contribution of radial normal stress to the circumferential strain. This assumption does not cause appreciable error for curved beams of compact cross section for which the radial normal stresses are small, and it leads to acceptable answers for beams having thin webs where, although the radial stresses are higher, they occur in regions of the cross section where the circumferential bending stresses are small. The use of the equations in Table 9.1 and of Eqs. (9.1-1) and (9.1-2) is limited to values of $R/d > 0.6$ where, for a rectangular cross section, a comparison of this mechanics-of-materials solution [Eq. (9.1-1)] to the solution using the theory of elasticity shows the mechanics of materials solution to indicate stresses approximately 10% too large.

While in theory the curved-beam formula for circumferential bending stress, Eq. (9.1-1), could be used for beams of very large radii of curvature, one should not use the expression for $e$ from Eq. (9.1-2) for cases where $R/d$, the ratio of the radius of the curvature $R$ to the depth of the cross section, exceeds 8. The calculation for $e$ would have to be done with careful attention to precision on a computer or calculator to get an accurate answer. Instead one should use the following approximate expression for $e$ which becomes very accurate for large values of $R/d$. See Ref. 29.

$$
e \approx \frac{I_c}{RA} \quad \text{for} \ \frac{R}{d} > 8
\eqno{(9.1-3)}
$$

where $I_c$ is the area moment of inertia of the cross section about the centroidal axis. Using this expression for $e$ and letting $R$ approach infinity leads to the usual straight-beam formula for bending stress.

For complex sections where the table or Eq. (9.1-3) are inappropriate, a numerical technique that provides excellent accuracy can be employed. This technique is illustrated on pp. 318–321 of Ref. 36.

In summary, use Eq. (9.1-1) with $e$ from Eq. (9.1-2) for $0.6 < R/d < 8$. Use Eq. (9.1-1) with $e$ from Eq. (9.1-3) for those curved beams for which $R/d > 8$ and where errors of less than 4 to 5% are desired, or use straight-beam formulas if larger errors are acceptable or if $R/d \gg 8$.

### Circumferential normal stresses due to hoop tension $N(M = 0)$.

The normal force $N$ was chosen to act through the centroid of the cross section, so a constant normal stress $N/A$ would satisfy equilibrium. Solutions carried out for rectangular cross sections using the theory of elasticity show essentially a constant normal stress with higher values on a thin layer of material on the inside of the curved section and lower values on a thin layer of material on the outside of the section. In most engineering applications the stresses due to the moment $M$ are much