# Formulas for Stress and Strain

The results of applying this method of analysis to a number of more or less typical problems are given below. In all cases, in finding the accelerations of the particles, it has been assumed that the effect of deformation could be ignored; i.e., the acceleration of each particle has been found as though the body were rigid. For convenience, stresses, bending moments, and shears due to inertia forces only are called *inertia* stresses, moments, and shears; they are calculated as though the body were outside the field of gravitation. Stresses, moments, and shears due to balanced forces (including gravity) may be superimposed thereon. The gravitational acceleration constant $g$ depends upon the units used for the imposed acceleration.

1. A slender uniform rod of weight $W$, length $L$, section area $A$, and modulus of elasticity $E$ is given a motion of translation with an acceleration of $a$ parallel to its axis by a pull (push) applied at one end. The maximum tensile (compressive) stress occurs at the loaded end and is $\sigma = Wa/gA$. The elongation (shortening) due to the inertia stresses is

$$
e = \frac{1}{2}\frac{W}{g}\frac{aL}{AE}
$$

2. The rod described in problem 1 is given a motion of translation with an acceleration of $a$ normal to its axis by forces applied at each end. The maximum inertia bending moment occurs at the middle of the bar and is $M = \frac{1}{8}WaL/g$. The maximum inertia vertical (transverse) shear occurs at the ends and is $V = \frac{1}{2}Wa/g$.

3. The rod described in problem 1 is made to rotate about an axis through one end normal to its length at a uniform angular velocity of $\omega$ rad/s. The maximum tensile inertia stress occurs at the pinned end and is

$$
\sigma = \frac{1}{2}\frac{W}{g}\frac{L\omega^2}{A}
$$

The elongation due to inertia stress is

$$
e = \frac{1}{3}\frac{W}{g}\frac{L^2\omega^2}{AE}
$$

4. The rod described in problem 1 is pinned at the lower end and allowed to swing down under the action of gravity from an initially vertical position. When the rod reaches a position where it makes with the vertical the angle $\theta$, it is subjected to a positive bending moment (owing to its weight and the inertia forces) which has its