# Formulas for Stress and Strain

surface of models or structures to determine the two-dimensional surface strains. The surface is made reflective before bonding the plastics in place so the effective thickness of the photoelastic plastic is doubled and all two-dimensional techniques can be applied with suitable instrumentation.

## 6. Moiré techniques.

All moiré techniques can be explained by optical interference, but the course-grid techniques can also be evaluated on the basis of obstructive or mechanical interference.

### (a) Geometric moiré.

Geometric moiré techniques use grids of alternate equally wide bands of relatively transparent or light-colored material and opaque or dark-colored material in order to observe the relative motion of two such grids. The most common technique (Refs. 2, 5, 8, and 11) uses an alternate transparent and opaque grid to produce photographically a matching grid on the flat surface of the specimen. Then the full-field relative motion is observed between the reproduction and the original when the specimen is loaded. Similarly, the original may be used with a projector to produce the photographic image on the specimen and then produce interference with the projected image after loading. These methods can use ordinary white light, and the interference is due merely to *geometric* blocking of the light as it passes through or is reflected from the grids.

Another similar technique, *shadow moiré*, produces interference patterns due to motion of the specimen at right angles to its surface between an alternately transparent and opaque grid and the shadow of the grid on the specimen.

### (b) Moiré interferometry.

Interferometry provides a means of producing both specimen gratings and reference gratings. Virtual reference gratings of more than 100,000 lines per inch have been utilized. Moiré interferometry provides contour maps of in-plane displacements, and, with the fine pitches attainable, differentiation to obtain strains from this experimental process is comparable to that used in the finite-element method of numerical analysis where displacement fields are generally the initial output. See Chap. 7 in Ref. 27.

## 7. Holographic and laser speckle interferometry.

The rapid evolution of holographic and laser speckle interferometry is related to the development of high-power lasers and to the development of digital computer enhancement of the resulting images. Various techniques are used to measure the several displacement components of diffuse reflecting surfaces. Details are beyond the scope of this book and are best reviewed in Chap. 8 of Ref. 27.