# Formulas for Stress and Strain

$\tau = 1.25\ V/\text{web area}$ (Ref. 11) or $\tau = V/\text{Web area}$ (Ref. 12), reaches a value equal to the unit load that can be carried by a vertical strip of the beam as a round-ended column. For the thin webs of the beams tested, such a thin strip would be computed as a Euler column; for heavier beams an appropriate parabolic or other formula should be used (Chap. 12).

In plate girders, web buckling may be prevented by vertical or diagonal stiffeners, usually consisting of double angles that are riveted or welded, one on each side of the web. Steel-construction specifications (Ref. 13) require that such stiffeners be provided when $h/t$ exceeds 70 and $v$ exceeds $64{,}000{,}000/(h/t)^2$. Such stiffeners should have a moment of inertia (figured for an axis at the center line of the web) equal to at least $0.00000016H^4$ and should be spaced so that the clear distance between successive stiffeners is not more than $11{,}000t/\sqrt{v}$ or 84 in, whichever is least. Here $h$ is the clear depth of the web between flanges, $t$ is the web thickness, $v$ is the shear stress $V/ht$, and $H$ is the total depth of the web. In light-metal airplane construction, the stiffeners are sometimes designed to have a moment of inertia about an axis parallel to the web given by $I = (2.29d/t)(Vh/33E)^{4/3}$, where $V =$ the (total) vertical shear and $d =$ the stiffener spacing center to center (Ref. 14).

Buckling failure may occur also as a result of vertical compression at a support or concentrated load, which is caused by either column-type buckling of the web (Refs. 11 and 12) or crippling of the web at the toe of the fillet (Ref. 15). To guard against this latter type of failure, present specifications provide that for interior loads $R/t(N + 2k) \leq 24{,}000$ and for end reactions $R/t(N + k) \leq 24{,}000$, where $R$ is the concentrated load or end reaction, $t$ the web thickness, $N$ the length of bearing, and $k$ the distance from the outer face of the flange to the web toe of the fillet. Here $R$ is in pounds and all linear dimensions are in inches.

Wood beams will crush locally if the supports are too narrow or if a load is applied over too small a bearing area. The unit bearing stress in either case is calculated by dividing the force by the nominal bearing area, no allowance being made for the nonuniform distribution of pressure consequent upon bending (Ref. 9). Metal beams also may be subjected to high local pressure stresses; these are discussed in Chap. 14.

### Lateral buckling.

The compression flange of an I-beam or similar member may fail as a column as a result of lateral buckling if it is unsupported. Such buckling may be *elastic* or *plastic*; that is, it may occur at a maximum fiber stress below or above the elastic limit. In the first case the buckling is an example of elastic instability, for which