428

# Formulas for Stress and Strain

[CHAP. 11]

**Concentrated loading.** It will be noted that all formulas for maximum stress due to a load applied over a small area give very high values when the radius of the loaded area approaches zero. Analysis by a more precise method (Ref. 12) shows that the actual maximum stress produced by a load concentrated on a very small area of radius $r_o$ can be found by replacing the actual $r_o$ by a so-called *equivalent radius* $r'_o$, which depends largely upon the thickness of the plate $t$ and to a lesser degree on its least transverse dimension. Holl (Ref. 13) shows how $r'_o$ varies with the width of a flat plate. Westergaard (Ref. 14) gives an approximate expression for this equivalent radius:

$$
r'_o = \sqrt{1.6r_o^2 + t^2} - 0.675t
$$

(11.1-1)

This formula, which applies to a plate of any form, may be used for all values of $r_o$ less than $0.5t$; for larger values the actual $r_o$ may be used.

Use of the equivalent radius makes possible the calculation of the finite maximum stresses produced by a (nominal) point loading whereas the ordinary formula would indicate that these stresses were infinite.

**Edge conditions.** The formulas of Tables 11.2-11.4 are given for various combinations of edge support: free, guided (zero slope but free to move vertically), and simply supported or fixed. No exact edge condition is likely to be realized in ordinary construction, and a condition of true edge fixity is especially difficult to obtain. Even a small horizontal force at the line of contact may appreciably reduce the stress and deflection in a simply supported plate; however, a very slight yielding at nominally fixed edges will greatly relieve the stresses there while increasing the deflection and center stresses. For this reason it is usually advisable to design a fixed-edged plate that is to carry uniform load for somewhat higher center stresses than are indicated by theory.

## 11.2 Bending of Uniform-Thickness Plates with Circular Boundaries

In Table 11.2, cases 1-5 consider annular and solid circular plates of constant thickness under *axisymmetric* loading for several combinations of boundary conditions. In addition to the formulas, tabulated values of deformation and moment coefficients are given for many common loading cases. The remaining cases include concentrated loading and plates with some circular and straight boundaries. Only the deflections due to bending strains are included; in Sec. 11.3, the additional deflections due to shear strains are considered.