## 11.12]

# Flat Plates

**Elliptical plates.** Nash and Cooley (Ref. 72) present graphically the results of a uniform pressure on a clamped elliptical plate for $a/b = 2$. Their method of solution is presented in detail, and the numerical solution is compared with experimental results and with previous solutions they have referenced. Ng (Ref. 73) has tabulated the values of center deflection for clamped elliptical plates on elastic foundations for ratios of $a/b$ from 1 to 2 and for a wide range of foundation moduli. Large deflections are also graphed for two ratios $a/b$ (1.5 and 2) for the same range of foundation moduli.

**Rectangular plates.** Analytical solutions for uniformly loaded rectangular plates with large deflections are given in Refs. 30–34, where the relations among load, deflection, and stress are expressed by numerical values of the dimensionless coefficients $y/t$, $qb^4/Et^4$, and $\sigma b^2/Et^2$. The values of these coefficients given in the following table are taken from these references and are for $\nu = 0.316$. In this table, $a$, $b$, $q$, $E$, $y$, and $t$ have the same meaning as in Table 11.4, $\sigma_d$ is the diaphragm stress, and $\sigma$ is the total stress found by adding the diaphragm stress and the bending stress. See also Ref. 17.

In Ref. 35 experimentally determined deflections are given and compared with those predicted by theory. In Ref. 74 a numerical solution for uniformly loaded rectangular plates with simply supported edges is discussed, and the results for a square plate are compared with previous approximate solutions. Graphs are presented to show how stresses and deflections vary across a square plate.

Chia in Ref. 91 includes a chapter on moderately large deflections of isotropic rectangular plates. Not only are the derivations presented but the results of most cases are presented in the form of graphs usable for engineering calculations. Cases of initially deflected plates are included, and the comprehensive list of references is useful. Aalami and Williams in Ref. 92 present 42 tables of large-deflection reduction coefficients over a range of length ratios $a/b$ and for a variety—three bending and four membrane—of symmetric and nonsymmetric boundary conditions. Loadings include overall uniform and linearly varying pressures as well as pressures over limited areas centered on the plates.

**Parallelogram plates.** Kennedy and Ng (Ref. 53) present several graphs or large elastic deflections and the accompanying stresses for uniformly loaded skew plates with clamped edges. Several aspect ratios and skew angles are represented.

## 11.12 Plastic Analysis of Plates

The onset of yielding in plates may occur before the development of appreciable diaphragm stress if the plate is relatively thick. For