# Chapter 5

# Numerical Methods

The analysis of stress and deformation of the loading of simple geometric structures can usually be accomplished by closed-form techniques. As the structures become more complex, the analyst is forced to approximations of closed-form solutions, experimentation, or numerical methods. There are a great many numerical techniques used in engineering applications for which digital computers are very useful. In the field of structural analysis, the numerical techniques generally employ a method which discretizes the continuum of the structural system into a finite collection of points (or nodes) whereby mathematical relations from elasticity are formed. The most popular technique used currently is the *finite element method* (FEM). For this reason, most of this chapter is dedicated to a general description of the method. A great abundance of papers and textbooks have been presented on the finite element method, and a complete listing is beyond the scope of this book. However, some textbooks and historical papers are included for introductory purposes.

Other methods, some of which FEM is based upon, include *trial functions* via *variational methods* and *weighted residuals*, the *finite difference method* (FDM), *structural analogues*, and the *boundary element method* (BEM). FDM and BEM will be discussed briefly.

## 5.1 The Finite Difference Method

In the field of structural analysis, one of the earliest procedures for the numerical solutions of the governing differential equations of stressed continuous solid bodies was the *finite difference method*. In the finite difference approximation of differential equations, the derivatives in the equations are replaced by difference quotients of the values of the dependent variables at discrete mesh points of the domain. After imposing the appropriate boundary conditions on the structure, the

73