SEC. 16.8] Dynamic and Temperature Stresses 769

## 16.8 References

1. Hodkinson, B.: Rotating Discs of Conical Profile, *Engineering*, vol. 115, p. 1, 1923.  
2. Rushing, F. C.: Determination of Stresses in Rotating Disks of Conical Profile, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 53, p. 91, 1931.  
3. Stodola, A.: “Steam and Gas Turbines,” 6th ed., McGraw-Hill, 1927 (transl. by L. C. Loewenstein).  
4. Loewenstein, L. C.: “Marks’ Mechanical Engineers’ Handbook,” McGraw-Hill, 1930.  
5. Donnell, L. H.: Longitudinal Wave Transmission and Impact, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 52, no. 1, p. 153, 1930.  
6. Love, A. E. H.: “Mathematical Theory of Elasticity,” 2nd ed., Cambridge University Press, 1906.  
7. Goodier, J. N.: Thermal Stress, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 4, no. 1, 1937.  
8. Maulbetsch, J. L: Thermal Stresses in Plates, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 2, no. 4, 1935.  
9. Kent, C. H.: Thermal Stresses in Spheres and Cylinders Produced by Temperatures Varying with Time, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 54, no. 18, p. 185, 1932.  
10. Timoshenko, S.: “Theory of Elasticity,” McGraw-Hill, 1934.  
11. Barker, L. H.: The Calculation of Temperature Stresses in Tubes, *Engineering*, vol. 124, p. 443, 1927.  
12. Robinson, E. L.: Bursting Tests of Steam-turbine Disk Wheels, *Trans. ASME*, vol 66, no. 5, p. 373, 1944.  
13. Holms, A. G., and J. E. Jenkins: Effect of Strength and Ductility on Burst Characteristics of Rotating Disks, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1667, 1948.  
14. Goodier, J. N.: Thermal Stress and Deformation, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 24, no. 3, 1957.  
15. Eichmann, E. S.: Note on the Maximum Effect of a Moving Force on a Simple Beam, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 20, no. 4, 1953.  
16. Ayre, R. S., L. S. Jacobsen, and C. S. Hsu: Transverse Vibration of 1 and 2-span Beams under Moving Mass-Load, *Proc. 1st U.S. Nail. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, 1952.  
17. Burr, Arthur H.: Longitudinal and Torsional Impact in a Uniform Bar with a Rigid Body at One End, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 17, no. 2, 1950.  
18. Schweiger, Horst: A Simple Calculation of the Transverse Impact on Beams and Its Experimental Verification, *J. Soc. Exp. Mech.*, vol. 5, no. 11, 1965.  
19. Thomson, W. T., and M. D. Dahleh: “Theory of Vibrations with Applications,” 5th ed., Prentice-Hall, 1998.  
20. Leissa, A. W.: Vibration of Plates, NASA SP-160, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1969.  
21. Leissa, A. W.: Vibration of Shells, NASA SP-288, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1973.  
22. Huang, T. C.: Eigenvalues and Modifying Quotients of Vibration of Beams, and Eigenfunctions of Vibration of Beams, *Univ. Wis. Eng. Exp. Sta. Repts. Nos. 25 and 26*, 1964.  
23. Jones, R.: An Approximate Expression for the Fundamental Frequency of Vibration of Elastic Plates, *J. Sound Vib.*, vol. 38, no. 4, 1975.  
24. Blevins, R. D.: “Formulas for Natural Frequency and Mode Shape,” Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1979.  
25. Fridman, Y. B. (ed.): “Strength and Deformation in Nonuniform Temperature Fields,” transl. from the Russian, Consultants Bureau, 1964.  
26. Johns, D. J.: “Thermal Stress Analyses,” Pergamon Press, 1965.  
27. Boley, B. A., and J. H. Weiner: “Theory of Thermal Stresses,” John Wiley & Sons, 1960.  
28. Burgreen, D.: “Elements of Thermal Stress Analysis,” C. P. Press, 1971.  
29. Nowacki, W.: “Thermoelasticity,” 2nd ed., English transl. by H. Zorski, Pergamon Press, 1986.  
30. Timoshenko, S.: “Vibration Problems in Engineering,” Van Nostrand, 1955.