# Formulas for Stress and Strain

824         Formulas for Stress and Strain         [APP. B]

**Strength:** Typically refers to a particular limiting value of stress for which a material ceases to behave according to some prescribed function. [Compare *Endurance limit (Fatigue strength); Endurance strength; Ultimate strength; Yield strength.*]

**Stress:** Internal force per unit area exerted on a specified surface. When the force is tangential to the surface, the stress is called a *shear stress*; when the force is normal to the surface, the stress is called a *normal stress*; when the normal stress is directed toward the surface, it is called a *compressive stress*; and when the normal stress is directed away from the surface, it is called a *tensile stress*.

**Stress concentration factor, $K_t$:** Irregularities of form such as holes, screw threads, notches, and sharp shoulders, when present in a beam, shaft, or other member subject to loading, may produce high localized stresses. This phenomenon is called a *stress concentration*, and the form irregularities that cause it are called *stress raisers*. For the particular type of stress raiser in question, the ratio of the true maximum stress to the nominal stress calculated by the ordinary formulas of mechanics $(P/A,\ Mc/I,\ Tc/J,$ etc.$)$ is the stress concentration factor. The nominal stress calculation is based on the net section properties at the location of the stress raiser ignoring the redistribution of stress caused by the form irregularity. (See Sec. 3.10.)

**Stress intensity factor:** A term employed in fracture mechanics to describe the elastic stress field surrounding a crack tip.

**Stress trajectory (isostatic):** A line (in a stressed body) tangent to the direction of one of the principal stresses at every point through which it passes.

**Superposition, principle of:** With certain exceptions, the effect of a given combined loading on a structure may be resolved by determining the effects of each load separately and adding the results algebraically. The principle may be applied provided: (1) each effect is linearly related to the load that produces it, (2) a load does not create a condition which affects the result of another load, and (3) the deformations resulting from any specific load are not large enough to appreciably alter the geometric relations of the parts of the structural system. (See Sec. 4.2.)

**Torsional center (center of twist):** If a twisting couple is applied at a given section of a straight member, that section rotates about some point in its plane. This point, which does not move when the member twists, is the torsional center of that section. (See Refs. 5 and 6.)