# Formulas for Stress and Strain

temperature $T + \Delta T$. The temperature gradient through the thickness is linear. At points remote from the ends, the maximum circumferential stress is $\frac{1}{2}\Delta T\gamma E/(1 - \nu)$ (compression at the inner surface; tension at the outer surface) and the longitudinal stress is $\frac{1}{2}\Delta T\gamma E/(1 - \nu)$ (compression at the inside; tension at the outside). (These formulas apply to a thin tube of any cross section.) At the ends, if these are free, the maximum tensile stress in a tube of circular section is about 25% greater than the value given by the formula (Ref. 7).

16. A hollow cylinder with thick walls of inner radius $b$ and outer radius $c$ has the outer surface at the uniform temperature $T$ and the inner surface at the uniform temperature $T + \Delta T$. After steady-state heat flow is established the temperature decreases logarithmically with $r$ and then the maximum stresses, which are circumferential and which occur at the inner and outer surfaces, are

(Outer surface)

$$
\sigma_t = \frac{\Delta T\gamma E}{2(1 - \nu)\ln(c/b)}\left(1 - \frac{2b^2}{c^2 - b^2}\ln\frac{c}{b}\right)
$$

tension

(Inner surface)

$$
\sigma_t = \frac{\Delta T\gamma E}{2(1 - \nu)\ln(c/b)}\left(1 - \frac{2c^2}{c^2 - b^2}\ln\frac{c}{b}\right)
$$

compression

At the inner and outer surfaces, the longitudinal stresses are equal to the tangential stresses (Ref. 7).

17. If the thick tube of case 16 has the temperature of the outer surface raised at the uniform rate of $m^\circ/\text{s}$ then, after a steady rate of temperature rise has been reached throughout, the maximum tangential stresses are

(Outer surface)

$$
\sigma_t = \frac{E\gamma m}{8A(1 - \nu)}\left(3b^2 - c^2 - \frac{4b^4}{c^2 - b^2}\ln\frac{c}{b}\right)
$$

compression

(Inner surface)

$$
\sigma_t = \frac{E\gamma m}{8A(1 - \nu)}\left(b^2 + c^2 - \frac{4b^2c^2}{c^2 - b^2}\ln\frac{c}{b}\right)
$$

tension

where $A$ is the coefficient of thermal diffusivity equal to the coefficient of thermal conductivity divided by the product of density of the material and its specific heat. (For steel, $A$ may be