been observed over a period of 10 years, though ordinarily it ceases or becomes imperceptible within 1 or 2 years. The rate of flow is greater for air than for water storage, greater for small than for large specimens, and for moderate stresses increases approximately as the applied stress. On removal of stress, some elastic recovery occurs. Concrete also shows creep under tensile stress, the early creep rate being greater than the flow rate under compression (Refs. 11 and 16).

Under very gradually applied loading concrete exhibits an ultimate strength considerably less than that found under short-time loading; in certain compression tests it was found that increasing the time of testing from 1 s to 4 h decreased the unit stress at failure about 30%, most of this decrease occurring between the extremely quick (1 or 2 s) and the conventional (several minutes) testing. This indicates that the compressive stress that concrete can sustain indefinitely may be considerably less than the ultimate strength as determined by a conventional test. On the other hand, the long-time imposition of a moderate loading appears to have no harmful effect; certain tests show that after 10 years of constant loading equal to one-fourth the ultimate strength, the compressive strength of concrete cylinders is practically the same and the modulus of elasticity is considerably greater than for similar cylinders that were not kept under load (Ref. 15).

The modulus of rupture of plain concrete also decreases with the time of loading, and some tests indicate that the long-time strength in cross-breaking may be only 55 to 75% of the short-time strength (Ref. 12).

Reference 17 is a compilation of 12 papers, each with extensive references, dealing with the effect of volumetric changes on concrete structures. Design modifications to accommodate these volumetric changes are the main thrust of the papers.

**Wood.** Wood also yields under sustained stress; the long-time (several years) strength is about 55% of the short-time (several minutes) strength in bending; for direct compression parallel to the grain the corresponding ratio is about 75% (Ref. 2).

## 3.7 Criteria of Elastic Failure and of Rupture

For the purpose of this discussion it is convenient to divide metals into two classes: (1) *ductile* metals, in which marked plastic deformation commences at a fairly definite stress (yield point, yield strength, or possibly elastic limit) and which exhibit considerable ultimate elongation; and (2) *brittle* metals, for which the beginning of plastic deformation is not clearly defined and which exhibit little ultimate elongation. Mild steel is typical of the first class, and cast iron is typical of the