iv Contents

# Chapter 5 Numerical Methods

73

*The Finite-Difference Method. The Finite-Element Method. The Boundary-Element Method. References.*

# Chapter 6 Experimental Methods

81

*Measurement Techniques. Electrical Resistance Strain Gages. Detection of Plastic Yielding. Analogies. Tables. References.*

# Part 3 Formulas and Examples

# Chapter 7 Tension, Compression, Shear, and Combined Stress

109

*Bar under Axial Tension (or Compression); Common Case. Bar under Axial Tension (or Compression); Special Cases. Composite Members. Trusses. Body under Pure Shear Stress. Cases of Direct Shear Loading. Combined Stress.*

# Chapter 8 Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars

125

*Straight Beams (Common Case) Elastically Stressed. Composite Beams and Bimetallic Strips. Three-Moment Equation. Rigid Frames. Beams on Elastic Foundations. Deformation due to the Elasticity of Fixed Supports. Beams under Simultaneous Axial and Transverse Loading. Beams of Variable Section. Slotted Beams. Beams of Relatively Great Depth. Beams of Relatively Great Width. Beams with Wide Flanges; Shear Lag. Beams with Very Thin Webs. Beams Not Loaded in Plane of Symmetry. Flexural Center. Straight Uniform Beams (Common Case). Ultimate Strength. Plastic, or Ultimate Strength. Design. Tables. References.*

# Chapter 9 Bending of Curved Beams

267

*Bending in the Plane of the Curve. Deflection of Curved Beams. Circular Rings and Arches. Elliptical Rings. Curved Beams Loaded Normal to Plane of Curvature. Tables. References.*

# Chapter 10 Torsion

381

*Straight Bars of Uniform Circular Section under Pure Torsion. Bars of Noncircular Uniform Section under Pure Torsion. Effect of End Constraint. Effect of Longitudinal Stresses. Ultimate Strength of Bars in Torsion. Torsion of Curved Bars. Helical Springs. Tables. References.*

# Chapter 11 Flat Plates

427

*Common Case. Bending of Uniform-Thickness Plates with Circular Boundaries. Circular-Plate Deflection due to Shear. Bimetallic Plates. Nonuniform Loading of Circular Plates. Circular Plates on Elastic Foundations. Circular Plates of Variable Thickness. Disk Springs. Narrow Ring under Distributed Torque about Its Axis. Bending of Uniform-Thickness Plates with Straight Boundaries. Effect of Large Deflection. Diaphragm Stresses. Plastic Analysis of Plates. Ultimate Strength. Tables. References.*