SEC. 15.6] Elastic Stability 739

## 15.6 References

1. Timoshenko, S. P., and J. M. Gere: “Theory of Elastic Stability,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1961.
2. Schwerin, E.: Die Torsionstabilität des dünnwandigen Rohres, *Z. angew. Math. Mech.*, vol. 5, no. 3, p. 235, 1925.
3. Trayer, G. W., and H. W. March: Elastic Instability of Members Having Sections Common in Aircraft Construction, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Rept.* 382, 1931.
4. Dumont, C., and H. N. Hill: The Lateral Instability of Deep Rectangular Beams, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 601, 1937.
5. Dinnik, A.: Design of Columns of Varying Cross-section, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 54, no. 18, p. 165, 1932.
6. Heck, O. S., and H. Ebner: Methods and Formulas for Calculating the Strength of Plate and Shell Construction as Used in Airplane Design, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech, Memo.* 785, 1936.
7. Maulbetsch, J. L.: Buckling of Compressed Rectangular Plates with Built-in Edges, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 4, no. 2, 1937.
8. Southwell, R. V., and S. W. Skan: On the Stability under Shearing Forces of a Flat Elastic Strip, *Proc. R. Soc. Lond., Ser. A.*, vol. 105, p. 582, 1924.
9. Bollenrath, F.: Wrinkling Phenomena of Thin Flat Plates Subjected to Shear Stresses, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Memo.* 601, 1931.
10. Way, S.: Stability of Rectangular Plates under Shear and Bending Forces, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 3, no. 4, 1936.
11. Smith, G. M.: Strength in Shear of Thin Curved Sheets of Alclad, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 343, 1930.
12. Lundquist, E. E.: Strength Tests of Thin-walled Duralumin Cylinders in Compression, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Rept.* 473, 1933.
13. Wilson, W. M., and N. M. Newmark: The Strength of Thin Cylindrical Shells as Columns, *Eng. Exp. Sta. Univ. Ill., Bull.* 255, 1933.
14. Lundquist, E. E.: Strength Tests of Thin-walled Duralumin Cylinders in Pure Bending, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 479, 1933.
15. Lundquist, E. E.: Strength Tests of Thin-walled Duralumin Cylinders in Combined Transverse Shear and Bending, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 523, 1935.
16. Donnell, L. H.: Stability of Thin-walled Tubes under Torsion, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Rept.* 479, 1933.
17. Seide, P.: On the Buckling of Truncated Conical Shells in Torsion, *ASME, J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 29, no. 2, 1962.
18. Ebner, H.: Strength of Shell Bodies—Theory and Practice, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Memo.* 838, 1937.
19. Saunders, H. E., and D. F. Windenberg: Strength of Thin Cylindrical Shells under External Pressure, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 53, no. 15, p. 207, 1931.
20. von Mises, R.: Der kritische Aussendruck zylindrischer Rohre, *Z. Ver Dtsch. Ing.*, vol. 58, p. 750, 1914.
21. Woinowsky-Krieger, S.: The Stability of a Clamped Elliptic Plate under Uniform Compression, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 4, no. 4, 1937.
22. Stein, M., and J. Neff: Buckling Stresses in Simply Supported Rectangular Flat Plates in Shear, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1222, 1947.
23. Batdorf, S. B., and M. Stein: Critical Combinations of Shear and Direct Stress for Simply Supported Rectangular Flat Plates, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1223, 1947.
24. Batdorf, S. B., M. Schildcrout, and M. Stein: Critical Stress of Thin-walled Cylinders in Axial Compression, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1343, 1947.
25. Batdorf, S. B., M. Stein, and M. Schildcrout: Critical Stress of Thin-walled Cylinders in Torsion, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1344, 1947.
26. Batdorf, S. B., M. Stein,, and M. Schildcrout: Critical Combination of Torsion and Direct Axial Stress for Thin-walled Cylinders, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1345, 1947.
27. Batdorf, S. B., M. Schildcrout, and M. Stein: Critical Shear Stress of Long Plates with Transverse Curvature, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1346, 1947.