# Formulas for Stress and Strain

sometimes the ultimate strength of a composite member may be raised by prestressing.

In a system of the second type (in which all parts *cannot* sustain stress reversal) prestressing increases the rigidity for any load less than that required to produce stress reversal. The effect of prestressing up to that point is to make the rigidity of the system the same as though all parts were effective. Thus in the case of the truss with wire diagonals it is as though the counterwires were taking compression; in the case of the flange-bolt combination it is as though the flanges were taking tension. (If the flanges are practically rigid in comparison with the bolts, there is no deformation until the applied load exceeds the bolt tension and so the system is rigid.) When the applied load becomes large enough to cause stress reversal (to make the counterwires go slack or to separate the flanges), the effect of prestressing disappears and the system is neither more nor less rigid than a similar one not prestressed provided, of course, none of the parts has been overstressed.

The elastic limit (or allowable load, or ultimate strength) of a system of this type is not affected by prestressing unless the elastic limit (or allowable load, or ultimate strength) of one or more of the parts is reached before the stress reversal occurs. In effect, a system of this type is exactly like a system of the first type until stress reversal occurs, after which all effects of prestressing vanish.

The effects of prestressing are often taken advantage of, notably in bolted joints (flanges, cylinder heads, etc.), where high initial tension in the bolts prevents stress fluctuation and consequent fatigue, and in prestressed reinforced-concrete members, where the initially compressed concrete is enabled, in effect, to act in tension without cracking up to the point of stress reversal. The example of the prestressed thick cylinder has already been mentioned.

## 3.13 Elastic Stability

Under certain circumstances the maximum load a member will sustain is determined not by the strength of the material but by the stiffness of the member. This condition arises when the load produces a bending or a twisting moment that is proportional to the corresponding deformation. The most familiar example is the *Euler column*. When a straight slender column is loaded axially, it remains straight and suffers only axial compressive deformation under small loads. If while thus loaded it is slightly deflected by a transverse force, it will straighten after removal of that force. But there is obviously some axial load that will just hold the column in the deflected position, and since both the bending moment due to the load and the resisting moment due to the stresses are directly proportional to the deflection,