SEC. 9.2] Curved Beams 275

|  | 0.1 | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.5 | 0.6 | 0.8 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $c^2/Rt = 0$  $\beta = 0$ | 0.297 | 0.580 | 0.836 | 1.056 | 1.238 | 1.382 | 1.577 |

|  | 1.2 | 1.4 | 1.5 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $c^2/Rt = 1$  $\beta = 1.677$ | 1.721 | 1.732 | 1.732 | 1.707 | 1.671 | 1.680 | 1.700 |

Derivations of expressions for $b'/b$ and for $\beta$ are also found in Ref. 29. Small differences in the values given in various references are due to compensations for secondary effects. The values given here are conservative.

In a similar way, the radial components of the circumferential normal stresses distort thin tubular cross sections of curved beams. This distortion affects both the stresses and deformations and is discussed in the next section.

**U-shaped members.** A U-shaped member having a semicircular inner boundary and a rectangular outer boundary is sometimes used as a punch or riveter frame. Such a member can usually be analyzed as a curved beam having a concentric outer boundary, but when the back thickness is large, a more accurate analysis may be necessary. In Ref. 11 are presented the results of a photoelastic stress analysis of such members in which the effects of variations in the several dimensions were determined. See case 23, Table 17.1

**Deflections.** If a sharply curved beam is only a small portion of a larger structure, the contribution to deflection made by the curved portion can best be calculated by using the stresses at the inner and outer surfaces to calculate strains and the strains then used to determine the rotations of the plane sections. If the structure is made up primarily of a sharply curved beam or a combination of such beams, then refer to the next section.

## 9.2 Deflection of Curved Beams

Deflections of curved beams can generally be found most easily by applying an energy method such as Castigliano's second theorem. One such expression is given by Eq. (8.1-7). The proper expression to use for the complementary energy depends upon the degree of curvature in the beam.

**Deflection of curved beams of large radius.** If for a curved beam the radius of curvature is large enough such that Eqs. (8.1-1) and (8.1-2) are acceptable, i.e., the radius of curvature is greater than 10 times the depth, then the stress distribution across the depth of the beam is very nearly linear and the complementary energy of flexure is given