# Formulas for Stress and Strain

**822** [APP. B]

**Radius of gyration, $k$:** The *radius of gyration* of an area with respect to a given axis is the square root of the quantity obtained by dividing the moment of inertia of the area $I$ with respect to that axis by the area $A$; that is, $k = \sqrt{I/A}$ (see Appendix A)

**Reduction of area:** The difference between the cross-sectional areas of a tensile specimen at the section of rupture before loading and after rupture.

**Relaxation:** The reduction in stress when the deformation is maintained constant. (Compare *Creep*.)

**Rupture factor:** Used in reference to brittle materials, i.e., materials in which failure occurs through tensile rupture rather than excessive deformation. For a member of given form, size and material, loaded and supported in a given manner, the *rupture factor* is the ratio of the fictitious maximum tensile stress at failure, as calculated by the appropriate formula for elastic stress, to the ultimate tensile strength of the material, as determined by a conventional tension test (Sec. 3.11.)

**Saint-Venant's principle:** If a load distribution is replaced by a statically equivalent force system, the distribution of stress throughout the body is possibly altered *only* near the regions of load application.

**Section modulus (section factor), $S$:** Pertaining to the cross section of a beam, the *section modulus* with respect to either principal axis of inertia is the moment of inertia with respect to that axis, $I$, divided by the distance from that axis to the most remote point of the section, $c$; that is, $S = I/c$. (Compare *Plastic section modulus*.)

**Set (permanent deformation):** Strain remaining after the removal of the applied loading.

**Shakedown load (stabilizing load):** The maximum load that can be applied to a beam or rigid frame and upon removal leave residual moments such that subsequent applications of the same or a smaller load will cause only elastic stresses.

**Shape factor:** The ratio of the plastic section modulus to the elastic section modulus.

**Shear center (flexural center):** With reference to a beam, the shear center of any section is that point in the plane of the section through which a transverse load, applied at the section, must act to produce bending deflection only and no twist of the section. (Compare with *Torsional center; Elastic center; Elastic axis.* See Refs. 5 and 10.)