SEC. 9.7] Curved Beams 379

## 9.7 References

1. Wilson, B. J., and J. F. Quereau: A Simple Method of Determining Stress in Curved Flexural Members, *Univ. Ill. Eng. Exp. Sta., Circ.* 16, 1927.
2. Timoshenko, S., and J. N. Goodier: “Theory of Elasticity,” 2nd ed., Engineering Society Monograph, McGraw-Hill, 1951.
3. Boresi, A. P., R. J. Schmidt, and O. M. Sidebottom: “Advanced Mechanics of Materials,” 5th ed., John Wiley & Sons, 1993.
4. von Kármán, Th.: “Über die Formänderung dünnwandiger Rohre, insbesondere federnder Ausgleichrohre,” *Z. Vereins Dtsch. Ing.*, vol. 55, p. 1889, 1911.
5. Timoshenko, S.: Bending Stresses in Curved Tubes of Rectangular Cross-section, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 45, p. 135, 1923.
6. Burke, W. F.: Working Charts for the Stress Analysis of Elliptic Rings, *Nat. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 444, 1933.
7. Bushnell, David: Elastic Plastic Bending and Buckling of Pipes and Elbows, *Comp. Struct.*, vol. 13, 1981.
8. Utecht, E. A.: Stresses in Curved, Circular Thin-Wall Tubes, *ASME J. Appl. Mech*., vol. 30, no. 1, 1963.
9. Penstock Analysis and Stiffener Design, *U.S. Dept. Of Agriculture, Bur. Reclamation, Boulder Canyon Proj. Final Repts., Pt. V, Bull.* 5, 1940.
10. Bleich, Hans: Stress Distribution in the Flanges of Curved T and I Beams, *U.S. Dept. Of Navy, David W. Taylor Model Basin, transl.* 228, 1950.
11. Mantle, J. B., and T. J. Dolan: A Photoelastic Study of Stresses in U-shaped Members, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 6, no. 1., 1948.
12. Stressed Skin Structures, Royal Aeronautical Society, data sheets.
13. Timoshenko, S.: “Strength of Materials,” D. Van Nostrand, 1930.
14. Levy, Roy: Displacements of Circular Rings with Normal Loads, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., J. Struct. Div.*, vol. 88, no. 1, 1962.
15. Moorman, R. B. B.: Stresses in a Curved Beam under Loads Normal to the Plane of Its Axis, *Iowa Eng. Exp. Sta., Iowa State College, Bull.* 145, 1940.
16. Fisher, G. P.: Design Charts for Symmetrical Ring Girders, *ASME J. Appl. Mech*., vol. 24, no. 1, 1957.
17. Moorman, R. B. B.: Stresses in a Uniformly Loaded Circular-arc I-beam, *Univ. Missouri Bull., Eng. Ser.* 36, 1947.
18. Hogan, M. B.: *Utah Eng. Exp. Sta., Bulls.* 21, 27, and 31.
19. Karabin, M. E., E. C. Rodabaugh, and J. F. Whatham: Stress Component Indices for Elbow-Straight Pipe Junctions Subjected to In-Plane Bending, *Trans. ASME J. Pressure Vessel Tech*., vol. 108, February 1986.
20. Volterra, Enrico, and Tandall Chung: Constrained Circular Beam on Elastic Foundations, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng*., vol. 120, 1955 (paper 2740).
21. Meck, H. R.: Three-Dimensional Deformation and Buckling of a Circular Ring of Arbitrary Section, *ASME J. Eng. Ind*., vol. 91, no. 1, 1969.
22. Brookhart, G. C.: Circular-Arc I-Type Girders, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., J. Struct. Div*., vol. 93, no. 6, 1967.
23. Dabrowski, R.: “Curved Thin-Walled Girders, Theory and Analyses,” Cement and Concrete Association, 1972.
24. Verden, Werner: “Curved Continuous Beams for Highway Bridges,” Frederick Ungar, 1969 (English transl.).
25. Sawko, F., and R. J. Cope: Analysis of Multi-cell Bridges Without Transverse Diaphragms—A Finite Element Approach, *Struct. Eng*., vol. 47, no. 11, 1969.
26. Meyer, C.: Analysis and Design of Curved Box Girder Bridges, *Univ. California, Berkeley, Struct. Eng. & Struct. Mech. Rept.* SESM-70-22, December 1970.
27. Vlasov, V. Z.: “Thin-Walled Elastic Beams,” Clearing House for Federal Scientific and Technical Information, U.S. Dept. Of Commerce, 1961.
28. Neugebauer, George H.: Private communication.
29. Cook, R. D., and W. C. Young: “Advanced Mechanics of Materials,” 2nd ed., Prentice-Hall, 1998.
30. Tepper, Ken: Private communication
31. Broughton, D. C., M. E. Clark, and H. T. Corten: Tests and Theory of Elastic Stresses in Curved Beams Having I- and T-Sections, *Exp. Mech*., vol. 8, no. 1, 1950.