APP. B] Glossary: Definitions 825

**Torsional moment (torque, twisting moment):** At any section of a member, the moment of all forces that act on the member to the left (or right) of that section, taken about a polar axis through the *flexural center* of that section. For sections that are symmetrical about each principal axis, the flexural center coincides with the centroid (see Refs. 6 and 10).

**Transformations of stress or strain:** Conversions of stress or strain at a point from one three-dimensional coordinate system to another. (See Secs. 2.3 and 2.4)

**Transverse shear force (vertical shear):** Reference is to a simple straight beam, assumed for convenience to be horizontal and loaded and supported by forces, all of which lie in a vertical plane. The transverse shear force at any section of the beam is the vertical component of all forces that act on the beam to the left (or right) of that section. The *shear force equation* is an expression for the transverse shear at any section in terms of $x$, the distance to that section measured from a chosen origin, usually taken from the left of the beam.

**Tresca stress:** Based on the failure mode of a ductile material being due to shear stress, the *Tresca stress* is a single shear stress value, which is equivalent to an actual combined state of stress.

**True strain:** The summation (integral) of each infinitesimal elongation $\Delta L$ of successive values of a specific gage length $L$ divided by that length. It is equal to $\int_{L_0}^{L} (dL/L) = \log_e (L/L_0) = \log_e (1 + \varepsilon)$, where $L_0$ is the original gage length and $\varepsilon$ is the normal strain as ordinarily defined (Ref. 14).

**True stress:** For an axially loaded bar, the force divided by the actual cross-sectional area undergoing loading. It differs from the *engineering stress* defined in terms of the original area.

**Ultimate elongation:** The percentage of permanent deformation remaining after tensile rupture (measured over an arbitrary length including the section of rupture).

**Ultimate strength:** The ultimate strength of a material in uniaxial tension or compression, or pure shear, respectively, is the maximum tensile, compressive, or shear stress that the material can sustain calculated on the basis of the greatest load achieved prior to fracture and the original unstrained dimensions.

**von Mises stress:** Based on the failure mode of a ductile material being due to distortional energy caused by a stress state, the *von Mises*