APP. B] Glossary: Definitions 819

**Influence line:** Usually pertaining to a particular section of a beam, an influence line is a curve drawn so that its ordinate at any point represents the value of the reaction, vertical shear, bending moment, or deflection produced at the particular section by a unit load applied at the point where the ordinate is measured. An influence line may be used to show the effect of load position on any quantity dependent thereon, such as the stress in a given truss member, the deflection of a truss, or the twisting moment in a shaft.

**Isoclinic:** A line (in a stressed body) at all points on which the corresponding principal stresses have the same direction.

**Isotropic:** Having the same properties in all directions. In discussions pertaining to strength of materials, isotropic usually means having the same strength and elastic properties (modulus of elasticity, modulus of rigidity, and Poisson’s ratio) in all directions.

**Kern (kernal):** Reference is to some particular section of a member. The kern is that area in the plane of a section through which the line of action of a force must pass if that force is to produce, at all points in the given section, the same kind of normal stress, i.e., tension throughout or compression throughout.

**Limit load:** The fictitious theoretical load that the cross section of a member made of an elastic, perfectly plastic material reaches when the entire section goes into the plastic range.

**Lüder’s lines:** See *Slip lines.*

**Margin of Safety:** As used in aeronautical design, margin of safety is the percentage by which the ultimate strength of a member exceeds the *design load*. The *design load* is the applied load, or maximum probable load, multiplied by a specified factor of safety. [The use of the terms margin of safety and design load in this sense is practically restricted to aeronautical engineering (see Ref. 11).]

**Member:** Any single part or element of a machine or structure, such as a beam, column, shaft, etc.

**Modulus of elasticity, $E$ (Young’s modulus):** The rate of change of normal stress, $\sigma$, to normal strain, $\epsilon$, for the condition of uniaxial stress within the proportional limit of a given material. For most, but not all materials, the modulus of elasticity is the same for tension and compression. For nonisotropic materials such as wood, it is necessary to distinguish between the moduli of elasticity in different directions.