## SEC. 15.4] Elastic Stability 715

stability failure; the work is extensively referenced. For similar collected data see Refs. 41 and 42.

Stein (Ref. 95) discusses some comparisons of theory with experimentation in shell buckling. Rabinovich (Ref. 96) describes in some detail the work in structural mechanics, including shell stability, in the U.S.S.R. from 1917 to 1957.

In recent years, there have been increasing development and application of the finite-element method for the numerical solution of shell problems. Navaratna, Pian, and Witmer (Ref. 94) describe a finite-element method of solving axisymmetric shell problems where the element considered is either a conical frustum or a frustum with a curved meridian; examples are presented of cylinders with uniform or tapered walls under axial load, a truncated hemisphere under axial tension, and a conical shell under torsion. Bushnell (Ref. 99) presents a very general finite-element program for shell analysis and Perrone (Ref. 98) gives a compendium of such programs. See also Refs. 101 to 108.

### Cylindrical and conical shells.

In general, experiments to determine the axial loads required to buckle cylindrical shells yield results that are between one-half and three-fourths of the classical buckling loads predicted by theory. The primary causes of these discrepancies are the deviations from a true cylindrical form in most manufactured vessels and the inability to accurately define the boundary conditions. Hoff (Refs. 67 and 68) shows that removing the in-plane shear stress at the boundary of a simply supported cylindrical shell under axial compression can reduce the theoretical buckling load by a factor of 2 from that predicted by the more usual boundary conditions associated with a simply supported edge. Baruch, Harari, and Singer (Ref. 84) find similar low-buckling loads for simply supported conical shells under axial load but for a different modification of the boundary support. Tani and Yamaki (Ref. 83) carry out further work on this problem, including the effect of clamped edges.

The random nature of manufacturing deviations leads to the use of the statistical approach, as mentioned previously (Ref. 97) and as Hausrath and Dittoe have done for conical shells (Ref. 77). Weingarten, Morgan, and Seide (Ref. 80) have developed empirical expressions for lower bounds of stability coefficients for cylindrical and conical shells under axial compression with references for the many data they present.

McComb, Zender, and Mikulas (Ref. 44) discuss the effects of internal pressure on the bending stability of very thin-walled cylindrical shells. Internal pressure has a stabilizing effect on axially and/or torsionally loaded cylindrical and conical shells. This subject is