116 # Formulas for Stress and Strain [CHAP. 7

we have for the aluminum tube

$$
P_i + 42{,}500 \frac{(2)(10)}{(2)(10) + (1.5)(30)} = 20{,}000
$$

or

$$
P_i = +6920 \text{ lb} \qquad \text{(initial tension)}
$$

For the steel rod, we have

$$
P_i + 42{,}500 \frac{(1.5)(30)}{(2)(10) + (1.5)(30)} = 22{,}500
$$

or

$$
P_i = -6920 \text{ lb} \qquad \text{(initial compression)}
$$

If the member were not prestressed, the unit stress in the steel would always be just three times as great as that in the aluminum because it would sustain the same unit deformation and its modulus of elasticity is three times as great. Therefore, when the steel reached its allowable stress of 15,000 lb/in$^2$, the aluminum would be stressed to only 5000 lb/in$^2$ and the allowable load on the composite member would be only 32,500 lb instead of 42,500 lb.

## 7.4 Trusses

A conventional truss is essentially an assemblage of straight uniform bars that are subjected to axial tension or compression when the truss is loaded at the joints. The deflection of any joint of a truss is easily found by the *method of unit loads* (Sec. 4.5). Let $p_1$, $p_2$, $p_3$, etc., denote the forces produced in the several members by an assumed unit load acting in the direction $x$ at the joint whose deflection is to be found, and let $\delta_1$, $\delta_2$, $\delta_3$, etc., denote the longitudinal deformations produced in the several members by the *actual applied loads*. The deflection $\Delta_x$ in the direction $x$ of the joint in question is given by

$$
\Delta_x = p_1\delta_1 + p_2\delta_2 + p_3\delta_3 + \cdots = \sum_{i=1}^{n} p_i \delta_i
\qquad (7.4\text{-}1)
$$

The deflection in the direction $y$, at right angles to $x$, can be found similarly by assuming the unit load to act in the $y$ direction; the resultant deflection is then determined by combining the $x$ and $y$ deflections. Attention must be given to the *signs* of $p$ and $\delta$, $p$ is positive if a member is subjected to tension and negative if under compression, and $\delta$ is positive if it represents an elongation and negative if it represents a shortening. A positive value for $\sum p\delta$ means that the deflection is in the direction of the assumed unit