## SEC. 8.16]

# Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars

185

moment at each of these points reaches this value. Therefore, when $W$ has reached its maximum value and collapse is imminent, the beam is acted on by the force system represented in Fig. 8.20(b); there is a *plastic hinge* and a known couple $M_p$ at each of the critical sections and the problem is statically determinate. For equilibrium of the right half, $R = M_p/(l/2)$ and $V_1 = R$; and for equilibrium of the left half, $V_2 = W - R$ and $[W - M_p/(l/2)]l/2 = 2M_p$ or $W = 6M_p/l$.

In attempting to predict the collapse load on the basis of elastic analysis, it is easy to fall into the error of equating the maximum elastic moment $\frac{3}{16}Wl$ at the wall (Table 8.1) to $M_p$, thus obtaining $W = \frac{16}{3}M_p/l$. This erroneous procedure fails to take into account the fact that as $W$ increases and yielding commences and progresses at the wall section, there is a redistribution of moments; the moment at the wall becomes less than $\frac{3}{16}Wl$, and the moment at the load becomes greater than $\frac{5}{32}Wl$ until finally each moment becomes equal to $M_p$. An important point to note is that although the elastic moments are affected by even a very slight departure from the assumed conditions—perfect fixity at one end and rigid support at the other—the collapse load is not thus affected. So long as the constraints are rigid enough to develop the plastic hinges as indicated, the ultimate load will be the same. Similarly, the method does not require that the beam be uniform in section, although a local reduction in section leading to the formation of a hinge at some point other than those assumed, of course, would alter the solution.

For a beam with multiple concentrated transverse loads or with distributed transverse loads, the locations of hinges are not known and must be assumed and verified. A virtual work approach to plastic collapse may permit a more rapid analysis than does the use of equilibrium equations, see Ref. 66. Verification consists of using the equilibrium conditions to construct a moment diagram and determine that no moments larger than the locally permitted values of the fully plastic moment are present.

Since nonlinear behavior does not permit superposition of results, one must consider all loads which are acting at a given time. If any of the several loads on a beam tend to cancel the maximum moments due to other loads, one must also consider the order in which the loads are applied in service to assure that the partially loaded beam has not collapsed before all loads have been applied.

Column 4 of Table A.1 contains an expression or a numerical value for the plastic section modulus $Z$ and for the shape factor $SF = Zc/I$ for many of the cross sections. Using the plastic section modulus and the value of the yield strength of the material, one can find the full plastic moment $M_p$. Table 8.13 contains expressions for the loadings which will cause plastic collapse and the locations of the plastic hinges associated with each such loading.