# Formulas for Stress and Strain

## 16.5 Remarks on Stress due to Impact

It is improbable that in any actual case of impact the stresses can be calculated accurately by any of the methods or formulas given above. Equation (16.3-3), for instance, is supposedly very nearly precise if the conditions assumed are realized, but those conditions—perfect elasticity of the bar, rigidity of the moving body, and simultaneous contact of the moving body with all points on the end of the rod—are obviously unattainable. On the one hand, the damping of the initial stress wave by elastic hysteresis in the bar and the diminution of the intensity of that stress wave by the cushioning effect of the actually nonrigid moving body would serve to make the actual maximum stress less than the theoretical value; on the other hand, uneven contact between the moving body and the bar would tend to make the stress conditions nonuniform across the section and would probably increase the maximum stress.

The formulas given in Sec. 16.4 are based upon an admittedly false assumption, viz. that the distribution of stress and strain under impact loading is the same as under static loading. It is known, for instance, that the elastic curve of a beam under impact is different from that under static loading. Such a difference exists in any case, but it is less marked for low than for high velocities of impact, and Eqs. (16.4-1) and (16.4-2) probably give reasonably accurate values for the deformation and stress (especially the deformation) resulting from the impact of a relatively heavy body moving at low velocity. The lenitive effect of the inertia of the body struck and of attached bodies, as expressed by $K$, is greatest when the masses of these parts are large compared with that of the moving body. When this is the case, impact can be serious only if the velocity is relatively high, and under such circumstances the formulas probably give only a rough indication of the actual stresses and deformations to be expected. (See Ref. 18.)

## 16.6 Temperature Stresses

Whenever the expansion or contraction that would normally result from the heating or cooling of a body is prevented, stresses are developed that are called *thermal*, or *temperature, stresses*. It is convenient to distinguish two different sets of circumstances under which thermal stresses occur: (1) The form of the body and the temperature conditions are such that there would be no stresses except for the *constraint of external forces*; in any such case, the stresses may be found by determining the shape and dimensions the body would assume if unconstrained and then calculating the stresses produced by forcing it back to its original shape and dimensions (see Sec. 7.2, Example 2). (2) The form of the body and the temperature