SEC. 12.2] Columns and Other Compression Members 533

Here $\sigma = \sigma_y(1 + B)/(1 + B + B^2)$, where $B = \sigma_y(L/r)^2/(c\pi^2E)$, and $K = K_o(\sigma_y/\sigma)^{1/2}$, where $K_o$ is a *shape factor*, the value of which is found from Eq. (12.2-8), $P/A$ being experimentally determined by testing columns of the section in question that have a slenderness ratio of about 20. For a closed box or "hat" section, $K_o = 15.6$; for a section with flat flanges with a width that is not more than 25 times the thickness, $K_o = 10.8$; for a section of oval form or having wholly or partially curved flanges, $K_o$ ranges from 12 to 32 (Ref. 13). (An extensive discussion of design procedures and buckling formulas for aluminum columns and other structural elements is found in Ref. 5.)

For spruce and other wood of similar properties, Trayer and March (Chap. 14, Ref. 3) give as the formula for buckling stress

$$
\sigma' = 0.07E\left(\frac{t}{b}\right)^2
$$

(12.2-9)

when the edge constraint is as great as normally can be expected in all-wood construction and

$$
\sigma' = 0.044E\left(\frac{t}{b}\right)^2
$$

(12.2-10)

when conditions are such as to make the edge constraint negligible.

**Thin webs.** For a long thin web that is fixed along each edge, the theoretical formula for buckling stress is

$$
\sigma' = \frac{5.73E}{1-v^2}\left(\frac{t}{b}\right)^2
$$

(12.2-11)

and for a web that is simply supported along each edge, the corresponding formula is

$$
\sigma' = \frac{3.29E}{1-v^2}\left(\frac{t}{b}\right)^2
$$

(12.2-12)

(See Table 15.2.)

For structural steel columns, the conclusion of the ASCE Column Research Committee (Ref. 8) is that elastic buckling will not occur at $b/t$ ratios less than 30. Tests made by the Bureau of Standards (Ref. 14) on steel members consisting of wide webs riveted between edge angles indicate that this conclusion is conservative and that $b/t$ may be safely as great as 35 if $b$ is taken as the width between rivet lines.