# Formulas for Stress and Strain

Equation (2.3-22) is a quadratic equation in $\sigma_p$ for which the two solutions are

$$
\sigma_p=\frac{1}{2}\left[(\sigma_x+\sigma_y)\pm\sqrt{(\sigma_x-\sigma_y)^2+4\tau_{xy}^2}\right]
$$

(2.3-23)

Since for plane stress, one of the principal stresses ($\sigma_z$) is always zero, numbering of the stresses ($\sigma_1 \geq \sigma_2 \geq \sigma_3$) cannot be performed until Eq. (2.3-23) is solved.

Each solution of Eq. (2.3-23) can then be substituted into *one* of Eqs. (2.3-21) to determine the direction of the principal stress. Note that if $\sigma_x=\sigma_y$ and $\tau_{xy}=0$, then $\sigma_x$ and $\sigma_y$ are principal stresses and Eqs. (2.3-21) are satisfied for all values of $\theta$. This means that all stresses in the plane of analysis are equal and the state of stress at the point is *isotropic* in the plane.

## EXAMPLE

Determine the principal stresses for a case of plane stress given by the stress matrix

$$
[\sigma]=\begin{bmatrix}
5 & -4 \\
-4 & 11
\end{bmatrix}
\quad \text{kpsi}
$$

Show the element containing the principal stresses properly oriented with respect to the initial $xyz$ coordinate system.

**Solution.** From the stress matrix, $\sigma_x=5$, $\sigma_y=11$, and $\tau_{xy}=-4$ kpsi and Eq. (2.3-23) gives

$$
\sigma_p=\frac{1}{2}\left[(5+11)\pm\sqrt{(5-11)^2+4(-4)^2}\right]=13,\quad 3\ \text{kpsi}
$$

Thus, the three principal stresses $(\sigma_1,\sigma_2,\sigma_3)$, are $(13,3,0)$ kpsi, respectively. For directions, first substitute $\sigma_1=13$ kpsi into either one of Eqs. (2.3-21). Using the first equation with $\theta=\theta_1$

$$
(\sigma_x-\sigma_1)\cos\theta_1+\tau_{xy}\sin\theta_1=(5-13)\cos\theta_1+(-4)\sin\theta_1=0
$$

or

$$
\theta_1=\tan^{-1}\left(\frac{-8}{4}\right)=-63.4^\circ
$$

Now for the other principal stress, $\sigma_2=3$ kpsi, the first of Eqs. (2.3-21) gives

$$
(\sigma_x-\sigma_2)\cos\theta_2+\tau_{xy}\sin\theta_2=(5-3)\cos\theta_2+(-4)\sin\theta_2=0
$$

or

$$
\theta_2=\tan^{-1}\left(\frac{2}{4}\right)=26.6^\circ
$$
