APP. C]

Composite Materials 839

## Axial Tension or Compression of Composite Beams

The solution for beams under pure axial load is similar to beams under bending. Instead of an equivalent bending stiffness $EI$, an equivalent axial stiffness $(EA)^*$ is found. Again, the standard beam assumptions apply, with the following additional restrictions:

1. Plies lie in the $x$-$z$ or 1–2 plane.
2. The shear coupling terms $(\ )_{16}$ and $(\ )_{26} = 0$.
3. The laminate is balanced-symmetric ($[B] = [0]$).

The requirement for a rectangular cross-section has been relaxed, but the laminate is now restricted to balanced symmetric lay-ups. Without that assumption, the membrane-bending coupling matrix $[B]$ is nonzero, and pure axial loads cause bending in the beam.

The process for calculating the equivalent beam stiffness is similar to the process for calculating beam bending stiffness (Refs. 3 and 4). The constitutive equations (C.2) are again simplified using the beam theory assumptions, and the standard beam equation $(EA)\varepsilon_x^0 = P$ is solved using the laminate properties:

$$
(EA)^* = b^* A_{11}
\qquad \text{(C.13)}
$$

where $b^*$ is the equivalent width of the cross-section. For a rectangular beam, $b^* = b$, the width of the cross-section. For a thin-walled circular cross section, $b^* = \pi D$, the circumference of the cross section. If the beam is built up from a series of uniform cross sections (such as a box beam or an I-beam), then

$$
(EA)^* = \sum b^* A_{11}
\qquad \text{(C.14)}
$$

where the product $b^* A_{11}$ is summed over each cross-section.

Ply stresses are calculated from

$$
[\sigma_x]_k = [\overline{Q}_{11}]_k \varepsilon_x^0
\qquad \text{(C.15)}
$$

where

$$
\varepsilon_x^0 = \frac{P}{(EA)^*}
\qquad \text{(C.16)}
$$

## EXAMPLE

A composite I-beam is made from T300/976 graphite epoxy with a $[0/\pm 30]_n s$ lay-up (where $n = 5$ for each flange and $n = 3$ for the web). The flanges are 1 in wide and 0.15 in thick; the web is 2 in tall and 0.09 in thick. The length of the beam is 20 in. An axial tensile load of 1000 lb is applied to the beam. It is desired to find the axial deflection and the stresses in the plies.