# Formulas for Stress and Strain

majority of experimental applications. For this reason, Sec. 6.2 provides further information on the use of these gages.

(b) *Capacitance strain gage.* Capacitance strain gages are larger and more massive than bonded electric resistance strain gages and are more widely used for applications beyond the upper temperature limits of the bonded resistance strain gages.

(c) *Inductance strain gages.* The change in air gap in a magnetic circuit can create a large change in *inductance* depending upon the design of the rest of the magnetic circuit. The large change in inductance is accompanied by a large change in *force* across the gap, and so the very sensitive inductance strain gages can be used only on more massive structures. They have been used as overload indicators on presses with no electronic amplification necessary. The linear relationship between core motion and output voltage of a *linear differential transformer* makes possible accurate measurement of displacements over a wide range of gage lengths and under a wide variety of conditions. The use of displacement data as input for work in experimental modal analysis is discussed in Chap. 16 of Ref. 27 and in many of the technical papers in Ref. 24.

**4. Interferometric strain gages.** Whole-field interferometric techniques will be discussed later, but a simple strain gage with a short length and high sensitivity can be created by several methods. In one, a diffraction grating is deposited at the desired location and in the desired direction and the change in grating pitch under strain is measured. With a metallic grid, these strain gages can be used at elevated temperatures. Another method, also useable at high temperatures, makes use of the interference of light reflected from the inclined surfaces of two very closely spaced indentations in the surface of a metallic specimen. Both of these methods are discussed and referenced in Ref. 27.

**5. Photoelastic analysis.** When a beam of polarized light passes through an elastically stressed transparent isotropic material, the beam may be treated as having been decomposed into two rays polarized in the planes of the principal stresses in the material. In birefringent materials the indexes of refraction of the material encountered by these two rays will depend upon the principal stresses. Therefore, interference patterns will develop which are proportional to the differences in the principal stresses.

(a) *Two-dimensional analysis.* With suitable optical elements—polarizers and wave plates of specific relative retardation—both the principal stress differences and the directions of principal stresses