SEC. 10.2]  
Torsion 383

**Formulas.** The torsional stiffness of the bar can be expressed by the general equations

$$
T = \frac{\theta}{l}KG \quad \text{or} \quad \theta = \frac{Tl}{KG}
\qquad (10.2\text{-}1)
$$

where $K$ is a factor dependent on the form and dimensions of the cross section. For a *circular* section $K$ is the polar moment of inertia $J$ [Eq. (10.1-1)] for other sections $K$ is less than $J$ and may be only a very small fraction of $J$. The maximum stress is a function of the twisting moment and of the form and dimensions of the cross section. In Table 10.1, formulas are given for $K$ and for max $\tau$ for a variety of sections. The formulas for cases 1 to 3, 5, 10, and 12 are based on rigorous mathematical analysis. The equations for case 4 are given in a simplified form involving an approximation, with a resulting error not greater than 4%. The $K$ formulas for cases 13–21 and the stress formulas for cases 13–18 are based on mathematical analysis but are approximate (Ref. 2); their accuracy depends upon how nearly the actual section conforms to the assumptions indicated as to form. The $K$ formulas for cases 22–26 and the stress formulas for cases 19–26 are based on the membrane analogy and are to be regarded as reasonably close approximations giving results that are rarely as much as 10% in error (Refs. 2–4 and 11).

It will be noted that formulas for $K$ in cases 23–26 are based on the assumption of uniform flange thickness. For slightly tapering flanges, $D$ should be taken as the diameter of the largest circle that can be inscribed in the actual section, and $b$ as the average flange thickness. For sharply tapering flanges the method described by Griffith (Ref. 3) may be used. Charts relating especially to structural H- and I-sections are in Ref. 11.

Cases 7, 9, and 27–35 present the results of curve fitting to data from Isakower, Refs. 12 and 13. These data were obtained from running a computer code CLYDE (Ref. 14) based on a finite-difference solution using central differences with a constant-size square mesh. Reference 12 also suggests an extension of this work to include sections containing hollows. For some simple concentric hollows the results of solutions in Table 10.1 can be superposed to obtain closely approximate solutions if certain limitations are observed. See the examples at the end of this section.

The formulas of Table 10.1 make possible the calculation of the strength and stiffness of a bar of almost any form, but an understanding of the membrane analogy (Sec. 6.4) makes it possible to draw certain conclusions as to the *comparative* torsional properties of different sections by simply visualizing the bubbles that would be