290  **Formulas for Stress and Strain**  **[CHAP. 9]**

From case 12:

$$
\Delta D_H = \frac{-5.04(78^4)}{340,000}\left[\frac{(\pi - 1.833)(-0.259) + 0.966}{2} - \frac{2}{\pi}(\pi - 1.833 - 0.966)\right]
$$

$$
= \frac{-5.04(78)^4}{340,000}(0.0954) = -52.37 \text{ in}
$$

From case 15:

$$
\Delta D_H = \frac{0.4292(0.1416)78^4}{340,000} = 6.616 \text{ in}
$$

From case 16:

$$
\Delta D_H = \frac{0.2146(0.0361)78^5}{340,000} = 65.79 \text{ in}
$$

The total change in the horizontal diameter is 20 in. It must be understood at this point that the answers are somewhat in error since this large a deflection does violate the assumption that the loaded ring is very nearly circular. This was expected when the stresses were found to be so large in such a thin pipe.

## Arches.

Table 9.3 gives formulas for end reactions and end deformations for circular arches of constant radius of curvature and constant cross section under 18 different loadings and with 14 combinations of end conditions. The corrections for axial stress and transverse shear are accomplished as they were in Table 9.2 by the use of the constants $\alpha$ and $\beta$. Once the indeterminate reactions are known, the bending moments, axial loads, and transverse shear forces can be found from equilibrium equations. If deformations are desired for points away from the ends, the unit-load method [Eq. (8.1-6)] can be used or the arch can be divided at the position where the deformations are desired and either portion analyzed again by the formulas in Table 9.3. Several examples illustrate this last approach. Note that in many instances the answer depends upon the difference of similar large terms, and so appropriate attention to accuracy must be given.

## EXAMPLES

1. A WT4 $\times$ 6.5 structural steel T-beam is formed in the plane of its web into a circular arch of 50-in radius spanning a total angle of $120^\circ$. The right end is fixed, and the left end has a pin which is constrained to follow a horizontal slot in the support. The load is applied through a vertical bar welded to the beam, as shown in Fig. 9.9. Calculate the movement of the pin at the left end, the maximum bending stress, and the rotation of the bar at the point of attachment to the arch.

**Solution.** The following material and cross-sectional properties may be used for this beam. $E = 30(10^6)\ \text{lb}/\text{in}^2$, $G = 12(10^6)\ \text{lb}/\text{in}^2$, $I_x = 2.90\ \text{in}^4$, $A = 1.92\ \text{in}^2$, flange thickness $= 0.254$ in, and web thickness $= 0.230$ in. The loading on the