# Formulas for Stress and Strain

internal work done by the stresses caused by that constant force. This relationship is the basis of the following method for finding the deflection of any given point of an elastic system: A unit force is imagined to act at the point in question and in the direction of the deflection that is to be found. The stresses produced by such a unit force will do a certain amount of internal work during the application of the actual loads. This work, which can be readily found, is equal to the work done by the unit force; but since the unit force is constant, this work is equal to the deflection sought.

If the direction of the deflection cannot be ascertained in advance, its horizontal and vertical components can be determined separately in the way described and the resultant deflection found therefrom. Examples of application of the method are given in Sec. 7.4.

**Deflection, the partial derivative of strain energy.** When a linear *elastic* system is statically loaded, the partial derivative of the strain energy with respect to any one of the applied forces is equal to the movement of the point of application of that force in the direction of that force. This relationship provides a means of finding the deflection of a beam or truss under several loads (see Refs. 3, 5, and 7).

**Theorem of least work.**$\dagger$ When an elastic system is statically loaded, the distribution of stress is such as to make the strain energy a minimum consistent with equilibrium and the imposed boundary conditions. This principle is used extensively in the solution of statically indeterminate problems. In the simpler type of problem (beams with redundant supports or trusses with redundant members) the first step in the solution consists in arbitrarily selecting certain reactions or members to be considered redundant, the number and identity of these being such that the remaining system is just determinate. The strain energy of the entire system is then expressed in terms of the unknown redundant reactions or stresses. The partial derivative of the strain energy with respect to each of the redundant reactions or stresses is then set equal to zero and the resulting equations solved for the redundant reactions or stresses. The remaining reactions or stresses are then found by the equations of equilibrium. An example of the application of this method is given in Sec. 7.4.

---

$\dagger$ By *theorem of least work* is usually meant only so much of the theorem as is embodied in the first application here described, and so understood it is often referred to as *Castigliano's second theorem*. But, as originally stated by Castigliano, it had a somewhat different significance. (See his "Théorème de l'équilibre des systèmes élastiques et ses applications," Paris, 1879, or the English translation "Elastic Stresses in Structures," by E. S. Andrews, Scott, Greenwood, London. See also R. V. Southwell, *Castigliano's Principle of Minimum Strain-energy*, *Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond., Ser. A*, vol. 154, 1936.) The more general theory stated is called *theorem of minimum energy* by Love (Ref. 1) and *theorem of minimum resilience* by Morley (Ref. 2).