# Preface to the Seventh Edition

The tabular format used in the fifth and sixth editions is continued in this edition. This format has been particularly successful when implementing problem solutions on a programmable calculator, or especially, a personal computer. In addition, though not required in utilizing this book, user-friendly computer software designed to employ the format of the tabulations contained herein are available.

The seventh edition intermixes International System of Units (SI) and United States Customary Units (USCU) in presenting example problems. Tabulated coefficients are in dimensionless form for convenience in using either system of units. Design formulas drawn from works published in the past remain in the system of units originally published or quoted.

Much of the changes of the seventh edition are organizational, such as:

- Numbering of equations, figures and tables is linked to the particular chapter where they appear. In the case of equations, the section number is also indicated, making it convenient to locate the equation, since section numbers are indicated at the top of each odd-numbered page.

- In prior editions, tables were interspersed within the text of each chapter. This made it difficult to locate a particular table and disturbed the flow of the text presentation. In this edition, all numbered tables are listed at the end of each chapter before the references.

Other changes/additions included in the seventh addition are as follows:

- Part 1 is an introduction, where Chapter 1 provides terminology such as state properties, units and conversions, and a description of the contents of the remaining chapters and appendices. The defini-

ix