## SEC. 2.3]

# Stress and Strain: Important Relationships

25

Considering the stress state given by the matrix of Eq. (2.3-1) to be known, the principal stresses $\sigma_p$ are related to the given stresses by

$$
(\sigma_x - \sigma_p)l_p + \tau_{xy}m_p + \tau_{zx}n_p = 0
$$

$$
\tau_{xy}l_p + (\sigma_y - \sigma_p)m_p + \tau_{yz}n_p = 0
\tag{2.3-18}
$$

$$
\tau_{zx}l_p + \tau_{yz}m_p + (\sigma_z - \sigma_p)n_p = 0
$$

where $l_p$, $m_p$, and $n_p$ are the directional cosines of the normals to the surfaces containing the principal stresses. One possible solution to Eqs. (2.3-18) is $l_p = m_p = n_p = 0$. However, this cannot occur, since

$$
l_p^2 + m_p^2 + n_p^2 = 1
\tag{2.3-19}
$$

To avoid the zero solution of the directional cosines of Eqs. (2.3-18), the determinant of the coefficients of $l_p$, $m_p$, and $n_p$ in the equation is set to zero. This makes the solution of the directional cosines indeterminate from Eqs. (2.3-18). Thus,

$$
\begin{vmatrix}
(\sigma_x - \sigma_p) & \tau_{xy} & \tau_{zx} \\
\tau_{xy} & (\sigma_y - \sigma_p) & \tau_{yz} \\
\tau_{zx} & \tau_{yz} & (\sigma_z - \sigma_p)
\end{vmatrix}
= 0
$$

Expanding the determinant yields

$$
\sigma_p^3 - (\sigma_x + \sigma_y + \sigma_z)\sigma_p^2 + (\sigma_x\sigma_y + \sigma_y\sigma_z + \sigma_z\sigma_x - \tau_{xy}^2 - \tau_{yz}^2 - \tau_{zx}^2)\sigma_p
$$

$$
- (\sigma_x\sigma_y\sigma_z + 2\tau_{xy}\tau_{yz}\tau_{zx} - \sigma_x\tau_{yz}^2 - \sigma_y\tau_{zx}^2 - \sigma_z\tau_{xy}^2) = 0
\tag{2.3-20}
$$

where Eq. (2.3-20) is a cubic equation yielding the three principal stresses $\sigma_1$, $\sigma_2$, and $\sigma_3$.

To determine the directional cosines for a specific principal stress, the stress is substituted into Eqs. (2.3-18). The three resulting equations in the unknowns $l_p$, $m_p$, and $n_p$ will not be independent since they were used to obtain the principal stress. Thus, only two of Eqs. (2.3-18) can be used. However, the second-order Eq. (2.3-19) can be used as the third equation for the three directional cosines. Instead of solving one second-order and two linear equations simultaneously, a simplified method is demonstrated in the following example.$^\dagger$

---

$^\dagger$ Mathematical software packages can be used quite easily to extract the eigenvalues $(\sigma_p)$ and the corresponding eigenvectors $(l_p, m_p,$ and $n_p)$ of a stress matrix. The reader is urged to explore software such as *Mathcad, Matlab, Maple,* and *Mathematica,* etc.