## SEC. 16.6] Dynamic and Temperature Stresses 759

conditions are such that stresses are produced in the *absence of external constraint* solely because of the incompatibility of the natural expansions or contractions of the different parts of the body.

A number of representative examples of each type of thermal stress will now be considered.* In all instances the modulus of elasticity $E$ and the coefficient of thermal expansion $\gamma$ are assumed to be constant for the temperature range involved and the increment or difference in temperature $\Delta T$ is assumed to be positive; when $\Delta T$ is negative, the stress produced is of the opposite kind. Also, it is assumed that the compressive stresses produced do not produce buckling and that yielding does not occur; if either buckling or yielding is indicated by the stress levels found, then the solution must be modified by appropriate methods discussed in previous chapters.

## Stresses due to external constraint

1. A uniform straight bar is subjected to a temperature change $\Delta T$ throughout while held at the ends; the resulting unit stress is $\Delta T \gamma E$ (compression). (For other conditions of end restraint see Table 8.2 cases 1q–12q.)

2. A uniform flat plate is subjected to a temperature change $\Delta T$ throughout while held at the edges; the resulting unit stress is $\Delta T \gamma E/(1 - \nu)$ (compression).

3. A solid body of any form is subjected to a temperature change $\Delta T$ throughout while held to the same form and volume; the resulting stress is $\Delta T \gamma E/(1 - 2\nu)$ (compression).

4. A uniform bar of rectangular section has one face at a uniform temperature $T$ and the opposite face at a uniform temperature $T + \Delta T$, the temperature gradient between these faces being linear. The bar would normally curve in the arc of the circle of radius $d/\Delta T \gamma$, where $d$ is the distance between the hot and cold faces. If the ends are fixed, the bar will be held straight by end couples $EI\Delta T \gamma/d$, and the maximum resulting bending stress will be $\frac{1}{2}\Delta T \gamma E$ (compression on the hot face; tension on the cold face). (For many other conditions of end restraint and partial heating, see Table 8.1, cases 6a–6f; Table 8.2, cases 1r–12r; Table 8.5, case 7; Table 8.6, case 7; Table 8.8, cases 6a–6f; and Table 8.9 cases 6a–6f.)

5. A flat plate of uniform thickness $t$ and of any shape has one face at a uniform temperature $T$ and the other face at a uniform tempera-

\*Most of the formulas given here are taken from the papers by Goodier (Refs. 7 and 14), Maulbetsch (Ref. 8). and Kent (Ref. 9).