# Formulas for Stress and Strain

\[
-2.379,\ \Delta R_A = 0.1389,\ \psi_A = 641(10^{-6}),\ \sigma_1 = -1.98,\ \sigma_2 = 20,128,\ \sigma'_1 = 605.7,
\]
and $\sigma'_2 = 196.2$.

For case 6b:

$$
LT_{A1} = \frac{-0.3(48.30^2)}{2(1.2^2)\cos 15^\circ} = -251.5,\qquad LT_{A2} = 1090.0
$$

$$
LT_{B1} = 5.582,\qquad LT_{B2} = 0,\qquad LT_{AC} = 0,\qquad LT_{BC} = 0
$$

$$
LT_A = 838.5,\qquad LT_B = 5.582
$$

Again combine the shell and load terms to get $K_{V1} = 0.6500,\ K_{M1} = 0.0545,$ $V_1 = 380.7,\ M_1 = 38.33,\ N_1 = 12,105,\ \Delta R_A = -0.0552,\ \psi_A = -0.0062,\ \sigma_1 = 10,087,\ \sigma_2 = -4972,\ \sigma'_1 = -159.7,$ and $\sigma'_2 = -188.$

The final step is to sum the deformations and stresses. $\Delta R_A = 0.0837,\ \psi_A = -0.0056,\ \sigma_1 = 10,085,\ \sigma_2 = 15,156,\ \sigma'_1 = 446.0,\ \sigma'_2 = 8.2.$ A check of these values against the tabulated constants shows that reasonable values could have been obtained by interpolation. At the junction the shell moves outward a distance of 0.0837 cm, and the upper meridian as shown in Fig. 13.13 rotates 0.0056 rad clockwise. On the inside surface of the junction the circumferential stress is 15,164 N/cm$^2$ and the meridional stress is 10,531 N/cm$^2$.

As should have been expected by the smooth transition from a conical to a spherical shell of the same thickness, the bending stresses are very small. In the next example the smooth inside surface will be retained but the cone and sphere will be different in thickness, and external pressure will be applied to demonstrate the use of the terms which correct for the pressure loading on the step in the wall thickness at the junction.

**2.** The only changes from Example 1 will be to make the pressure external at 1000 N/cm$^2$ and to increase the cone thickness to 4 cm and the sphere thickness to 2 cm. The smooth inside surface will be retained. If the correction terms are not used in this example, the external pressure will be presumed to act on the outer surface of the cone up to the junction and on the external spherical surface of the sphere. There will be no consideration given for the external pressure acting upon the 2-cm-wide external shoulder at the junction. The correction terms treat the additional axial and radial loadings and the added moment due to this pressure loading on the shoulder. If a weld fillet were used at the junction, the added pressure loading would be the same, so the correction terms are still applicable but no consideration is made for the added stiffness due to the extra material in the weld fillet. If the meridians for the cone and for the sphere intersect at an angle more than about 5°, a different correction term is used. This second correction term assumes that no definite step occurs on either the inner or the outer surface. See the discussion in Sec. 13.4 related to Fig. 13.12.

**Solution.** For the cone using Table 13.3, case 4: $\alpha_1 = 15^\circ,\ R_A = R_1 = 51 \sin 105^\circ = 49.262,$ and $k_A = 48.449$ when the radius and thickness are changed to the values shown in Fig. 13.14. Where $\mu = 4,$ the value of $k_B = 42.793$ and $R_B = 38.4,$ which is greater than $5\ (4\cos 15^\circ).$ Thus, again $k_A$ and $k_B$ are greater than 5 and the cone parameters are within the acceptable range for use with the equations. In a similar manner the parameters for the sphere are found to be within the range for which the equations are acceptable. Repeating the calculations as was done for the first example, with and without correction terms, one finds the following stresses: