## SEC. 3.7] The Behavior of Bodies under Stress 43

simple tensile specimen yields. In terms of the principal stresses the distortion energy for the general case can be shown to be (see Ref. 59)

$$
u_d=\frac{1+\nu}{6E}\left[(\sigma_1-\sigma_2)^2+(\sigma_2-\sigma_3)^2+(\sigma_3-\sigma_1)^2\right]
\qquad (3.7\text{-}1)
$$

For the simple tensile test, yielding occurs when $\sigma_1=\sigma_{ys}$, and $\sigma_2=\sigma_3=0$. From Eq. (3.7-1), this gives a distortion energy at yield of

$$
(u_d)_y=\frac{1+\nu}{3E}\sigma_{ys}^2
\qquad (3.7\text{-}2)
$$

Equating the energy for the general case, Eq. (3.7-1), to that for yield, Eq. (3.7-2), gives

$$
\sqrt{0.5\left[(\sigma_1-\sigma_2)^2+(\sigma_2-\sigma_3)^2+(\sigma_3-\sigma_1)^2\right]}=\sigma_{ys}
\qquad (3.7\text{-}3)
$$

For yield under a single, uniaxial state of stress, the stress would be equated to $\sigma_{ys}$. Thus, for yield, a single, uniaxial stress *equivalent* to the general state of stress is equated to the left-hand side of Eq. (3.7-3). This equivalent stress is called the *von Mises stress*, $\sigma_{vM}$, and is given by

$$
\sigma_{vM}=\sqrt{0.5\left[(\sigma_1-\sigma_2)^2+(\sigma_2-\sigma_3)^2+(\sigma_3-\sigma_1)^2\right]}
\qquad (3.7\text{-}4)
$$

Therefore, the maximum-distortion-energy theory predicts elastic failure when the von Mises stress reaches the yield strength.

The maximum-octahedral-shear-stress theory yields identical results to that of the maximum-distortion-energy theory (see Ref. 59). Through stress transformation, a stress element can be isolated in which all normal stresses on it are equal. These normal stresses are the averages of the normal stresses of the stress matrix, which are also the averages of the principal stresses and are given by

$$
\sigma_{ave}=\frac{1}{3}(\sigma_x+\sigma_y+\sigma_z)=\frac{1}{3}(\sigma_1+\sigma_2+\sigma_3)
\qquad (3.7\text{-}5)
$$

The element with these normal stresses is an octahedron where the eight surfaces are symmetric with respect to the principal axes. The directional cosines of the normals of these surfaces, relative to the principal axes, are eight combinations of $\pm 1/\sqrt{3}$ (e.g., one set is $1/\sqrt{3}$, $1/\sqrt{3}$, $1/\sqrt{3}$; another is $1/\sqrt{3}$, $-1/\sqrt{3}$, $1/\sqrt{3}$; etc.). The octahedron is as shown in Fig. 3.1. The shear stresses on these surfaces are also equal, called the *octahedral shear stresses*, and are given by

$$
\tau_{oct}=\frac{1}{3}\sqrt{(\sigma_1-\sigma_2)^2+(\sigma_2-\sigma_3)^2+(\sigma_3-\sigma_1)^2}
\qquad (3.7\text{-}6)
$$