**SEC. 8.1]**  
# Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars 129

where $S$ is the *section modulus*. The maximum fiber stress in the beam occurs at the section of greatest bending moment; if the section is not symmetrical about the neutral axis, the stresses should be investigated at both the section of greatest positive moment and the section of greatest negative moment.

## Maximum transverse shear stress.$^\dagger$

The maximum transverse shear stress in the beam occurs at the section of greatest vertical shear. The maximum transverse shear stress at any section occurs at the neutral axis, provided the net width $b$ is as small there as anywhere else; if the section is narrower elsewhere, the maximum shear stress may not occur at the neutral axis. This maximum transverse shear stress can be expressed conveniently by the formula

$$
(\tau_{\max})_V = \alpha \frac{V}{A}
$$

(8.1-13)

where $V/A$ is the *average shear stress* on the section and $\alpha$ is a factor that depends on the form of the section. For a rectangular section, $\alpha = \frac{3}{2}$ and the maximum stress is at the neutral axis; for a solid circular section, $\alpha = \frac{4}{3}$ and the maximum stress is at the neutral axis; for a triangular section, $\alpha = \frac{3}{2}$ and the maximum stress is halfway between the top and bottom of the section; for a diamond-shaped section of depth $h$, $\alpha = \frac{9}{8}$ and the maximum stress is at points that are a distance $h/8$ above and below the neutral axis.

In the derivation of Eq. (8.1-2) and in the preceding discussion, it is assumed that the shear stress is uniform across the width of the beam; i.e., it is the same at all points on any transverse line parallel to the neutral axis. Actually this is not the case; exact analysis (Ref. 1) shows that the shear stress varies across the width and that for a rectangle the maximum intensity occurs at the ends of the neutral axis where, for a wide beam, it is twice the average intensity. Photoelastic investigation of beams under concentrated loading shows that localized shearing stresses about four times as great as the maximum stress given by Eq. (8.1-2) occur near the points of loading and support (Ref. 2), but experience shows that this variation may be ignored and design based on the average value as determined by Eq. (8.1-2).

---

$\dagger$ Note that the *transverse shear stress* denoted here is the shear stress due to the vertical transverse force, $V$. The maximum transverse shear stress in a beam is not necessarily the maximum shear stress in the beam. One needs to look at the overall state of stress in light of stress transformations. For long beams, the maximum shear stress is normally due to the maximum fiber stress, and, using Eq. (2.3-25), the maximum shear stress is $\tau_{\max} = \frac{1}{2}\sigma_{\max} = \frac{1}{2}M/S$. For this reason, we will denote the maximum transverse shear stress in a beam as $(\tau_{\max})_V$.