SEC. 9.3] Curved Beams 285

| Element no. | $e/c$ | $M/P$ | $V/P$ | $N/P$ | $[B]$ | $[B]\dfrac{\Delta l}{A}$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| 1 | 0.0809 | $-0.996$ | 0.062 | $-0.998$ | 11.695 | 6.092 |
| 2 | 0.0709 | $-0.965$ | 0.184 | $-0.983$ | 13.269 | 7.627 |
| 3 | 0.0589 | $-0.902$ | 0.298 | $-0.954$ | 14.370 | 9.431 |
| 4 | 0.0467 | $-0.809$ | 0.401 | $-0.916$ | 14.737 | 11.101 |
| 5 | 0.0354 | $-0.684$ | 0.490 | $-0.872$ | 14.007 | 12.569 |
| 6 | 0.0256 | $-0.527$ | 0.567 | $-0.824$ | 11.856 | 13.105 |
| 7 | 0.0177 | $-0.340$ | 0.631 | $-0.776$ | 8.049 | 11.431 |
| 8 | 0.0114 | $-0.121$ | 0.684 | $-0.730$ | 3.232 | 6.290 |
|  |  |  |  |  |  | 77.555 |

Therefore, the deflection at the load and in the direction of the load is $77.56P/E$ in whatever units are chosen as long as the depth at the fixed end is unity. If one maintains the same length-to-depth ratio and the same shape, the deflection can be expressed as $\delta = 77.56P/(E2t_0)$, where $t_0$ is the constant thickness of the beam.

Michael Plesha (Ref. 33) provided a finite-element solution for this configuration and obtained for the load point a vertically downward deflection of 72.4 units and a horizontal deflection of 88.3 units. The 22 elements he used were nine-node, quadratic displacement, Lagrange elements. The reader is invited to apply a horizontal dummy load and verify the horizontal deflection.

## 9.3 Circular Rings and Arches

In large pipelines, tanks, aircraft, and submarines the circular ring is an important structural element, and for correct design it is often necessary to calculate the stresses and deflections produced in such a ring under various conditions of loading and support. The circular arch of uniform section is often employed in buildings, bridges, and machinery.

**Rings.** A closed circular ring may be regarded as a *statically indeterminate beam* and analyzed as such by the use of Castigliano's second theorem. In Table 9.2 are given formulas thus derived for the bending moments, tensions, shears, horizontal and vertical deflections, and rotations of the load point in the plane of the ring for various loads and supports. By superposition, these formulas can be combined so as to cover almost any condition of loading and support likely to occur.

The ring formulas are based on the following assumptions: (1) The ring is of uniform cross section and has symmetry about the plane of curvature. An exception to this requirement of symmetry can be made if moment restraints are provided to prevent rotation of each cross section out of its plane of curvature. Lacking the plane of symmetry and any external constraints, out-of-plane deformations will accom-
pany in-plane loading. Meck, in Ref. 21, derives expressions concern-