SEC. 12.1] Columns and Other Compression Members 527

**Formulas for short columns.** It is not possible to calculate with accuracy the maximum stress produced in a short column by a nominally concentric load because of the large influence of the indeterminate crookedness and eccentricity. The maximum unit stress that a column will sustain, however, can be expressed by any of a number of formulas, each of which contains one or more terms that is empirically adjusted to secure conformity with test results. Of such formulas, those given below are the best known and provide the basis for most of the design formulas used in American practice. In these equations $P$ denotes the load at failure, $A$ the cross-sectional area, $L$ the length, and $r$ the least radius of gyration of the section; the meaning of other symbols used is explained in the discussion of each formula.

*Secant formula*

$$
\frac{P}{A}=\frac{\sigma}{1+\frac{ec}{r^2}\sec\left(\frac{KL}{2r}\sqrt{\frac{P}{AE}}\right)}
$$

(12.1-2)

This formula is adapted from the formula for stress due to eccentric loading [Eq. (12.4-1)]. Here $\sigma$ denotes the maximum fiber stress at failure (usually taken as the yield point for steel and as the yield strength for light alloys); $e$ denotes the *equivalent eccentricity* (that eccentricity which in a perfectly straight column would cause the same amount of bending as the actual eccentricity and crookedness); $c$ denotes the distance from the central axis about which bending occurs to the extreme fiber on the concave or compression side of the bent column; and $K$ is a numerical coefficient, dependent on end conditions, such that $KL$ is the effective length of the column, or distance between points of inflection. The term $ec/r^2$ is called the *eccentric ratio*, and a value is assumed for this ratio which makes the formula agree with the results of tests on columns of the type under consideration. For example, tests on structural steel columns of conventional design indicate that the average value of the eccentric ratio is 0.25. In using the secant formula, $P/A$ must be solved for by trial or by the use of prepared charts.

*Rankine formula*

$$
\frac{P}{A}=\frac{\sigma}{1+\phi(L/r)^2}
$$

(12.1-3)

This is a semirational formula. The value of $\sigma$ is sometimes taken as the ultimate strength of the material and the value of $\phi$ as $\sigma/C\pi^2E$, thus making the formula agree with the results of tests on short prisms when $L/r$ is very small and with Euler’s equation when $L/r$ is