## SEC. 16.2]

# Dynamic and Temperature Stresses

**749**

$A$ and $B$ are constants, found by setting $\sigma_r$ equal to its known or assumed values at the inner and outer perimeters and solving the two resulting equations simultaneously for $A$ and $B$. [Equations (16.2-12) and (16.2-13) are taken from Stodola (Ref. 3) with some changes in notation.]

11. A homogeneous circular disk with section bounded by curves and straight lines (Fig. 16.3) rotates about its own axis with a uniform angular velocity $N$ rpm. The disk is imagined divided into annular rings of such width that each ring can be regarded as having a section with hyperbolic outline, as in problem 10. For each ring, $a$ is calculated by the formulas of problem 10, using the inner and outer radii and the corresponding thicknesses. Then, if $r_1$ and $r_2$ represent, respectively, the inner and outer radii of any ring, the tangential stresses $\sigma_{t_1}$ and $\sigma_{t_2}$ at the inner and outer boundaries of the ring are related to the corresponding radial stresses $\sigma_{r_1}$ and $\sigma_{r_2}$, in lb/in$^2$, as follows:

$$
\sigma_{t_1} = Ar_2^2 - B\sigma_{r_1} + C\sigma_{r_2}
\tag{16.2-14}
$$

$$
\sigma_{t_2} = Dr_2^2 - E\sigma_{r_1} + F\sigma_{r_2}
\tag{16.2-15}
$$

where

$$
B = \frac{m_2K^{m_1-1} - m_1K^{m_2-1}}{K^{m_2-1} - K^{m_1-1}}
$$

$$
K = \frac{r_1}{r_2}
$$

$$
E = -\frac{m_2 - m_1}{K^{m_2-1} - K^{m_1-1}}
$$

$$
C = \frac{E}{K^{a+2}}
$$

$$
F = B + a
$$

$$
A = -\frac{7.956(N/1000)^2}{8 + 3.3a}[1.9K^2 + 3.3(K^2B - C)]
$$

$$
D = -\frac{7.956(N/1000)^2}{8 + 3.3a}[1.9 + 3.3(K^2E - F)]
$$

$$
m_1 = -\frac{a}{2} - \sqrt{\frac{a^2}{4} - 0.3a + 1}
$$

$$
m_2 = -\frac{a}{2} + \sqrt{\frac{a^2}{4} - 0.3a + 1}
$$

The preceding formulas, which are given by Loewenstein (Ref. 4), are directly applicable to steel, for which the values $\nu = 0.3$ and $\delta = 0.28$ lb/in$^3$ have been assumed.