**[SEC. 6.1]** Experimental Methods 83

read. Optical magnification using mirrors still requires mechanical levers or rollers and is an improvement but still not satisfactory for most applications. In a laboratory setting, however, such mechanical and optical magnification can be used successfully. See Ref. 3 for more detailed descriptions. A scratch gage uses scratches on a polished target to determine strain amplitudes, and while the scratches are in general not strictly related to time, they are usually related to events in such a way as to be extremely useful in measuring some dynamic events. The scratched target is viewed with a microscope to obtain peak-to-peak strains per event, and a zero strain line can also be scratched on the target if desired (Ref. 3). The use of lasers and/or optical telescopes with electronic detectors to evaluate the motion of fiduciary marks on distant structures makes remote-displacement measurements possible, and when two such detectors are used, strains can be measured. While the technique is valuable when needed for remote measurement, generally for environmental reasons, it is an expensive technique for obtaining the strain at a single location.

**2. Brittle coatings.** Surface coatings formulated to crack at strain levels well within the elastic limit of most structural materials provide a means of locating points of maximum strain and the directions of principal strains. Under well-controlled environmental conditions and with suitable calibration, such coatings can yield quantitative results (Refs. 2, 3, 7, 9, 20, 21, and 27). This technique, however, is not universally applicable, since the coatings may not be readily available due to environmental problems with the coating materials.

**3. Electrical strain and displacement gages.** The evolution of electrical gages has led to a variety of configurations where changes in resistance, capacitance, or inductance can be related to strain and displacement with proper instrumentation (Refs. 2–5, 20, 21, 23, 24, and 27).

*(a) Resistance strain gage.* For the electrical resistance strain gages, the gage lengths vary from less than 0.01 in to several inches. The gage grid material can be metallic or a semiconductor. The gages can be obtained in alloys that are designed to provide minimum output due to temperature strains alone and comparatively large outputs due to stress-induced strains. Metallic bonded-foil gages are manufactured by a photoetching process that allows for a wide range of configurations of the grid(s). The semiconductor strain gages provide the largest resistance change for a given strain, but are generally very sensitive to temperature changes. They are used in transducers where proper design can provide temperature compensation The use of electrical resistance strain gages for stress analysis purposes constitute the