## SEC. 8.10]

# Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars

167

If the I- or box beam has flanges of nonuniform thickness, it may be replaced by an “equivalent” section whose flanges, of uniform thickness, have the same width and areas as those of the actual section (Ref. 19). Approximate results may be obtained for I-beams using $F = 1$ and taking for $A$ the area of the web.

Application of Eq. (8.10-1) to several common cases of loading yields the following results:

End support, center load $P$  
$$y_s=\frac{1}{4}F\frac{Pl}{AG}$$

End support, uniform load $w$  
$$y_s=\frac{1}{8}F\frac{wl^2}{AG}$$

Cantilever, end load $P$  
$$y_s=F\frac{Pl}{AG}$$

Cantilever, uniform load $w$  
$$y_s=\frac{1}{2}F\frac{wl^2}{AG}$$

In Eq. (8.10-2), $U_s = F \int (V^2/2AG)dx$, $P$ is a vertical load, real or imaginary, applied at the section where $y_s$ is to be found, and the other terms have the same meaning as in Eq. (8.10-1).

The deflection due to shear will usually be negligible in metal beams unless the span/depth ratio is extremely small; in wood beams, because of the small value of $G$ compared with $E$, deflection due to shear is much more important. In computing deflections it may be allowed for by using for $E$ a value obtained from bending tests (shear deflection ignored) on beams of similar proportions or a value about 10% less than that found by testing in direct compression if the span/depth ratio is between 12 and 24. For larger ratios the effect of shear is negligible, and for lower ratios it should be calculated by the preceding method.

For extremely short deep beams, the assumption of linear stress distribution, on which the simple theory of flexure is based, is no longer valid. Equation (8.1-1) gives sufficiently accurate results for span/depth ratios down to about 3; for still smaller ratios it was believed formerly that the actual stresses were smaller than the formula indicates (Refs. 1 and 2), but more recent analyses by numerical methods (Refs. 43 and 44) indicate that the contrary is true. These analyses show that at $s/d$ between 1.5 and 1, depending on the manner of loading and support, the stress distribution changes radically and the ratio of maximum stress to $Mc/I$ becomes greater than 1 and increases rapidly as $s/d$ becomes still smaller. In the following table, the influence of $s/d$ on both maximum fiber stress and maximum horizontal shear stress is shown in accordance with the solution given in Ref. 43. Reference 44 gives comparable results, and both strain-gage measurements (Ref. 45) and photoelastic studies (Ref. 46) support the conclusions reached in these analyses.