286 **Formulas for Stress and Strain** [CHAP. 9]

ing the coupling of in-plane and out-of-plane deformations of circular rings of arbitrary compact cross section and resulting instabilities. (2) All loadings are applied at the radial position of the centroid of the cross section. For thin rings this is of little concern, but for radially thick rings a concentrated load acting in other than a radial direction and not at the centroidal radius must be replaced by a statically equivalent load at the centroidal radius and a couple. For case 15, where the loading is due to gravity or a constant linear acceleration, and for case 21, where the loading is due to rotation around an axis normal to the plane of the ring, the proper distribution of loading through the cross section is accounted for in the formulas. (3) It is nowhere stressed beyond the elastic limit. (4) It is not so severely deformed as to lose its essentially circular shape. (5) Its deflection is due primarily to bending, but for thicker rings the deflections due to deformations caused by axial tension or compression in the ring and/or by transverse shear stresses in the ring may be included. To include these effects, we can evaluate first the coefficients $\alpha$ and $\beta$, the *axial stress deformation factor*, and the *transverse shear deformation factor*, and then the constants $k_1$ and $k_2$. Such corrections are more often necessary when composite or sandwich construction is employed. If no axial or shear stress corrections are desired, $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are set equal to zero and the values of $k$ are set equal to unity. (6) In the case of pipes acting as beams between widely spaced supports, the distribution of shear stress across the section of the pipe is in accordance with Eq. (8.1-2), and the direction of the resultant shear stress at any point of the cross section is tangential.

Note carefully the deformations given regarding the point or points of loading as compared with the deformations of the horizontal and vertical diameters. For many of the cases listed, the numerical values of load and deflection coefficients have been given for several positions of the loading. These coefficients do not include the effect of axial and shear deformation.

No account has been taken in Table 9.2 of the effect of radial stresses in the vicinity of the concentrated loads. These stresses and the local deformations they create can have a significant effect on overall ring deformations and peak stresses. In case 1 a reference is made to Sec. 14.3 in which thick-walled rollers or rings are loaded on the outer ends of a diameter. The stresses and deflections given here are different from those predicted by the equations in case 1. If a concentrated load is used only for purposes of superposition, as is often the case, there is no cause for concern, but if an actual applied load is concentrated over a small region and the ring is sharply curved with thick walls, then one must be aware of the possible errors.