# Glossary: Definitions

**APP. B]** 821

**Plastic moment; plastic hinge; plastic section modulus:** The maximum hypothetical bending moment for which the stresses in *all* fibers of a section of a ductile member in bending reach the lower yield point $\sigma_y$ is called the *plastic moment*, $M_p$. Under this condition the section cannot accommodate any additional load, and a *plastic hinge* is said to form. The *section modulus* $Z_p$ is defined as $M_p/\sigma_y$.

**Plasticity:** The property of sustaining appreciable permanent deformation without rupture. The term is also used to denote the property of yielding or flowing under steady load (Ref. 13).

**Poisson's ratio, $\nu$:** The ratio of lateral to longitudinal strain under the condition of uniform and uniaxial longitudinal stress within the proportional limit.

**Polar moment of inertia:** With respect to an axis normal to the plane of an area, the sum of the products obtained by multiplying each element of the area $dA$ by the square of the distance $r$ from the axis; it is thus the quantity $\int r^2\, dA$ (see Appendix A).

**Principal axes of inertia:** The two mutually perpendicular axes in the plane of an area, centered at the centroid of the area, with moments of inertia that are maximum and minimum (see Appendix A).

**Principal axes of stress:** The three mutually perpendicular axes at a specific point within a solid where the state of stress on each surface normal to the axes contains a tensile or compressive stress and zero shear stress.

**Principal moment of inertia:** The moment of inertia of an area about a principal axis of inertia (see Appendix A).

**Principal stresses:** The tensile or compressive stresses acting along the principal axes of stress.

**Product of inertia of an area:** With respect to a pair of $xy$ rectangular axes in the plane of an area, the sum of the products obtained by multiplying each element of area $dA$ by the coordinates with respect to these axes; that is, $\int xy\, dA$ (see Appendix A). The product of inertia relative to the principal axes of inertia is zero.

**Proof stress:** Pertaining to acceptance tests of metals, a specified tensile stress that must be sustained without deformation in excess of a specified amount.

**Proportional limit:** The greatest stress that a material can sustain without deviating from the law of stress–strain proportionality (*Hookes' law*.) (Compare *Elastic limit; Apparent elastic limit; Yield point; Yield strength.* See Sec. 3.2 and Ref. 8.)