544  Formulas for Stress and Strain  [CHAP. 12]

before failure, determined by an appropriate column formula. [For the type of thin section often used for stiffeners in airplane construction, $\sigma_c$ may be found by Eqs. (12.2-7) or (12.2-8).] Since the unit load $\sigma_c$ and the effective width $w$ are interdependent (because of the effect of $w$ on the column radius of gyration), it is necessary to assume a value of $\sigma_c$, calculate the corresponding $w$, and then ascertain if the value of $\sigma_c$ is consistent (according to the column formula used) with this $w$. (This procedure may have to be repeated several times before agreement is reached.) Then, $\sigma_c$ and $w$ being known, the strength of the stiffener-and-sheet combination is calculated as

$$
P = n[\sigma_c(A_s + 2wt) + (b - 2w)t\sigma']
$$

where $n$ is the number of stiffeners, $A_s$ is the section area of one stiffener, $b$ is the distance between stiffeners (rivet line to rivet line) and $\sigma'$ is the critical buckling stress for the central portion of the sheet, taken as $\sigma' = 0.3Et/r$ ($r$ being the radius of curvature of the sheet).

Methods of calculating the strength of stiffened panels and thin columns subject to local and torsional buckling are being continually modified in the light of current study and experimentation. A more extensive discussion than is appropriate here can be found in books on airplane stress analysis, as well as in Refs. 4 and 5.

## 12.7 Short Prisms under Eccentric Loading

When a compressive or tensile load is applied eccentrically to a short prism (i.e., one so short that the effect of deflection is negligible), the resulting stresses are readily found by superposition. The eccentric load $P$ is replaced by an equal axial load $P'$ and by couples $Pe_1$ and $Pe_2$, where $e_1$ and $e_2$ denote the eccentricities of $P$ with respect to the principal axes 1 and 2, respectively. The stress at any point, or the maximum stress, is then found by superposing the direct stress $P'/A$ due to the axial load and the bending stresses due to the couples $Pe_1$ and $Pe_2$, these being found by the ordinary flexure formula (Sec. 8.1).

If, however, the prism is composed of a material that can withstand compression only (masonry) or tension only (very thin shell), this method cannot be employed when the load acts *outside the kern* because the reversal of stress implied by the flexure formula cannot occur. By assuming a linear stress distribution and making use of the facts that the volume of the stress solid must equal the applied load $P$ and that the center of gravity of the stress solid must lie on the line of action of $P$, formulas can be derived for the position of the neutral axis (line of zero stress) and for maximum fiber stress in a prism of any given cross section. A number of such formulas are given in Table 12.1, together with the dimensions of the kern for each of the sections