SEC. 11.2] Flat Plates 429

## Formulas.

For cases 1–15 (Table 11.2), expressions are given for deformations and reactions at the edges of the plates as well as general equations which allow the evaluation of *deflections, slopes, moments and shears* at any point in the plate. The several axisymmetric loadings include uniform, uniformly increasing, and parabolically increasing normal pressure over a portion of the plate. This permits the approximation of any reasonable axisymmetric distributed loading by fitting an approximate second-order curve to the variation in loading and solving the problem by superposition. (See the Examples at the end of this section.)

In addition to the usual loadings, Table 11.2 also includes loading cases that may be described best as *externally applied conditions which force a lack of flatness into the plate.* For example, in cases 6 and 14, expressions are given for a manufactured concentrated change in slope in a plate, which could also be used if a plastic hinge were to develop in a plate and the change in slope at the plastic hinge is known or assumed. Similarly, case 7 treats a plate with a small step manufactured into the otherwise flat surface and gives the reactions which develop when this plate is forced to conform to the specified boundary conditions. These cases are also useful when considering known boundary rotations or lateral displacements. (References 46, 47, 57, and 58 present tables and graphs for many of the loadings given in these cases.)

The use of the constants $C_1$ to $C_9$ and the functions $F_1$ to $F_9$, $L_1$ to $L_{19}$, and $G_1$ to $G_{19}$ in Table 11.2 appears to be a formidable task at first. However, when we consider the large number of cases it is possible to present in a limited space, the reason for this method of presentation becomes clear. With careful inspection, we find that the constants and functions with *like subscripts* are the same except for the change in variable. We also note the use of the *singularity function* $\langle r - r_o \rangle^0$, which is given a value of 0 for $r < r_o$ and a value of 1 for $r > r_o$. In Table 11.1, values are listed for all the preceding functions for several values of the variables $b/r$, $b/a$, $r_o/a$, and $r_o/r$; also listed are five of the most used denominators for the several values of $b/a$. (Note that these values are for $\nu = 0.30$.)

## EXAMPLES

**1.** A solid circular steel plate, 0.2 in thick and 20 in in diameter, is simply supported along the edge and loaded with a uniformly distributed load of $3 \text{ lb/in.}^2$. It is required to determine the center deflection, the maximum stress, and the deflection equation. Given: $E = 30(10^6) \text{ lb/in}^2$ and $\nu = 0.285$.

**Solution.** This plate and loading are covered in Table 11.2, case 10a. The following constants are obtained:

$$
D = \frac{30(10^6)(0.2^3)}{12(1 - 0.285^2)} = 21{,}800,\qquad q = 3,\qquad a = 10,\qquad r_o = 0
$$