# Formulas for Stress and Strain

In theory the equations in Table 8.5 are correct for any finite-length beam or for any finite foundation modulus, but for practical purposes they should not be used when $\beta l$ exceeds a value of 6 because the roundoff errors that are created where two very nearly equal large numbers are subtracted will make the accuracy of the answer questionable. For this reason, Table 8.6 has been provided. Table 8.6 contains formulas for semi-infinite- and infinite-length beams on elastic foundations. These formulas are of a much simpler form since the far end of the beam is assumed to be far enough away so as to have no effect on the response of the left end to the loading. If $\beta l > 6$ and the load is nearer the left end, this is the case.

Hetényi (Ref. 53) discusses this problem of a beam supported on an elastic foundation extensively and shows how the solutions can be adapted to other elements such as hollow cylinders. Hetényi (Ref. 51) has also developed a series solution for beams supported on elastic foundations in which the stiffness parameters of the beam and foundation are not incorporated in the arguments of trigonometric or hyperbolic functions. He gives tables of coefficients derived for specific boundary conditions from which deformation, moments, or shears can be found at any specific point along the beam. Any degree of accuracy can be obtained by using enough terms in the series.

Tables of numerical values, Tables 8.3 and 8.4 are provided to assist in the solution of the formulas in Table 8.5. Interpolation is possible for values that are included but should be used with caution if it is noted that differences of large and nearly equal numbers are being encountered. A far better method of interpolation for a beam with a single load is to solve the problem twice. For the first solution move the load to the left until $\beta (l - a)$ is a value found in Table 8.3, and for the second solution move the load similarly to the right. A linear interpolation from these solutions should be very accurate.

Presenting the formulas for end reactions and displacements in Table 8.5 in terms of the constants $C_l$ and $C_{al}$ is advantageous since it permits one to solve directly for loads anywhere on the span. If the loads are at the left end such that $C_i = C_{ai}$, then the formulas can be presented in a simpler form as is done in Ref. 6 of Chap. 13 for cylindrical shells. To facilitate the use of Table 8.5 when a concentrated load, moment, angular rotation, or lateral displacement is at the left end (that is, $a = 0$), the following equations are presented to simplify the numerators:

$$
C_1 C_2 + C_3 C_4 = C_{12}, \qquad 2C_1^2 + C_2 C_4 = 2 + C_{11}
$$

$$
C_2 C_3 - C_1 C_4 = C_{13}, \qquad C_2^2 - 2C_1 C_3 = C_{14}
$$

$$
C_1^2 + C_3^2 = 1 + C_{11}, \qquad 2C_3^2 - C_2 C_4 = C_{11}
$$

$$
C_2^2 + C_4^2 = 2C_{14}, \qquad 2C_1 C_3 + C_4^2 = C_{14}
$$
