# Formulas for Stress and Strain

specimen. Several empirical formulas have been proposed to represent the influence of size on a machine part or test specimen in bending. For steel, Moore (Ref. 38) suggests the equation

$$
\sigma'_e \left(1 - \frac{0.016}{d'}\right) = \sigma''_e \left(1 - \frac{0.016}{d''}\right)
$$

where $\sigma'_e$ is the endurance limit for a specimen of diameter $d'$ and $\sigma''_e$ is the endurance limit for a specimen of diameter $d''$. This formula was based on test results obtained with specimens from 0.125 to 1.875 inches in diameter and shows good agreement within that size range. Obviously it cannot be used for predicting the endurance limit of very small specimens. The few relevant test results available indicate a considerable decrease in endurance limit for very large diameters (Refs. 22-24).

## Stress concentrations.

Fatigue failures occur at stress levels less than those necessary to produce the gross yielding which would blunt the sharp rise in stress at a stress concentration. It is necessary, therefore, to apply the fatigue strengths of a smooth specimen to the peak stresses expected at the stress concentrations unless the size of the stress-concentrating notch or fillet approaches the grain size or the size of an anticipated defect in the material itself (see *Factor of stress concentration in fatigue* in Sec. 3.10). References 40 and 41 discuss the effect of notches on low-cycle fatigue.

## Surface conditions.

Surface roughness constitutes a kind of stress raiser. Discussion of the effect of surface coatings and platings is beyond the scope of this book (see Refs. 28 and 36).

## Corrosion fatigue.

Under the simultaneous action of *corrosion* and repeated stress, the fatigue strength of most metals is drastically reduced, sometimes to a small fraction of the strength in air, and a true endurance limit can no longer be said to exist. Liquids and gases not ordinarily thought of as especially conducive to corrosion will often have a very deleterious effect on fatigue properties, and resistance to corrosion is more important than normal fatigue strength in determining the relative rating of different metals (Refs. 24, 25, and 31).

## Range of stress.

Stressing a ductile material beyond the elastic limit or yield point in tension will raise the elastic limit for subsequent cycles but lower the elastic limit for compression. The consequence of this Bauschinger effect on fatigue is apparent if one accepts the statement that fatigue damage is a result of cyclic plastic flow; i.e.,