SEC. 11.15] Flat Plates 523

60. Lee, T. M.: Flexure of Circular Plate by Concentrated Force, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 94, no. 3, 1968.  
61. Essenburg, F., and S. T. Gulati: On the Contact of Two Axisymmetric Plates, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 33, no. 2, 1966.  
62. Slot, T., and W. J. O’Donnell: Effective Elastic Constants for Thick Perforated Plates with Square and Triangular Penetration Patterns, *ASME J. Eng. Ind.*, vol. 11, no. 4, 1971.  
63. Petrina, P., and H. D. Conway: Deflection and Moment Data for Rectangular Plates of Variable Thickness, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 39, no. 3, 1972.  
64. Conway, H. D.: Nonaxial Bending of Ring Plates of Varying Thickness, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 25, no. 3, 1958.  
65. Strock, R. R., and Yi-Yuan Yu: Bending of a Uniformly Loaded Circular Disk With a Wedge-Shaped Cross Section, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 30, no. 2, 1963.  
66. Conway, H. D.: The Ribbed Circular Plate, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 30, no. 3, 1963.  
67. Wempner, G. A.: The Conical Disc Spring, *Proc. 3rd Natl. Congr. Appl. Mech., ASME*, 1958.  
68. Wempner, G. A.: Axisymmetric Deflections of Shallow Conical Shells, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 90, no. 2, 1964.  
69. Owens, J. H., and D. C. Chang: Belleville Springs Simplified, *Mach. Des.*, May 14, 1970.  
70. Paul, B.: Collapse Loads of Rings and Flanges Under Uniform Twisting Moment and Radial Force, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 26, no. 2, 1959.  
71. Mah, G. B. J.: Axisymmetric Finite Deflection of Circular Plates, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 95, no. 5, 1969.  
72. Nash, W. A., and I. D. Cooley: Large Deflections of a Clamped Elliptical Plate Subjected to Uniform Pressure, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 26, no. 2, 1959.  
73. Ng, S. F.: Finite Deflection of Elliptical Plates on Elastic Foundations, *AIAA J.*, vol. 8, no. 7, 1970.  
74. Bauer, F., L. Bauer, W. Becker, and E. Reiss: Bending of Rectangular Plates With Finite Deflections, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 32, no. 4, 1965.  
75. Dundurs, J., and Tung-Ming Lee: Flexure by a Concentrated Force of the Infinite Plate on a Circular Support, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 30, no. 2, 1963.  
76. Amon, R., and O. E. Widera: Clamped Annular Plate under a Concentrated Force, *AIAA J.*, vol. 7, no. 1, 1969.  
77. Amon, R., O. E. Widera, and R. G. Ahrens: Problem of the Annular Plate, Simply Supported and Loaded with an Eccentric Concentrated Force, *AIAA J.*, vol. 8, no. 5, 1970.  
78. Widera, O. E., R. Amon, and P. L. Panicali: On the Problem of the Infinite Elastic Plate with a Circular Insert Reinforced by a Beam, *Nuclear Eng. Des.*, vol. 12, no. 3, 1970.  
79. Amon, R., O. E. Widera, and S. M. Angel: Green’s Function of an Edge-Beam Reinforced Circular Plate, *Proc. CANCAM, Calgary*, May 1971.  
80. Ohashi, Y., and S. Murakami: Large Deflection in Elastoplastic Bending of a Simply Supported Circular Plate Under a Uniform Load, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 33, no. 4, 1966.  
81. Save, M. A., and C. E. Massonnet: “Plastic Analysis and Design of Plates, Shells and Disks,” North-Holland, 1972.  
82. Markowitz, J., and L. W. Hu: Plastic Analysis of Orthotropic Circular Plates, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 90, no. 5, 1964.  
83. Crose, J. G., and A. H.-S. Ang: Nonlinear Analysis Method for Circular Plates, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 95, no. 4, 1969.  
84. Szilard, R.: “Theory and Analysis of Plates; Classical and Numerical Methods,” Prentice-Hall, 1974.  
85. Ollerton, E.: Thin Annular Plates Having an Inner Clamp Carrying Bending Moments, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 12, no. 3, 1977.  
86. Ollerton, E.: The Deflection of a Thin Circular Plate with an Eccentric Circular Hole, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 11, no. 2, 1976.  
87. Ollerton, E.: Bending Stresses in Thin Circular Plates with Single Eccentric Circular Holes, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 11, no. 4, 1976.