SEC. 11.6#Circular Plates on Elastic Foundations] Flat Plates 439

$M_{tb} = 0.8814(0.211)(1.5) = 0.279\ \text{lb-in.}$ The stresses can now be computed. On the top surface of the stainless steel combining Eqs. (11.3-7) and (11.3-9) yields

$$
\sigma = \frac{-6(0.279)}{0.02^2(11.986)} \left\{ 1 + \frac{(1 - 0.3^2)(1 + 3/2)[1 + 28(2)/17(3)]}{[1 + 28(2)/17(3)]^2 - [0.3 + 0.3(28)(2)/17(3)]^2} \right\}
$$

$$
- \frac{(5.7 - 9.6)(10^{-6})(50)(28)(10^6)}{(1 - 0.3)(11.177)}
\left[ 3 \left( \frac{2}{3} \right) + 2 \left( \frac{2}{3} \right)^2 - \frac{17}{28} \left( \frac{3}{2} \right) \right]
$$

$$
= -765 + 1381 = 616\ \text{lb/in}^2
$$

Similarly, on the bottom surface of the titanium, Eqs. (11.3-8) and (11.3-10) give

$$
\sigma = 595 - 1488 = -893\ \text{lb/in}^2
$$

## 11.5 Nonuniform Loading of Circular Plates

The case of a circular plate under a nonuniformly distributed loading symmetrical about the center can be solved by treating the load as a series of elementary ring loadings and summing the stresses and deflections produced by such loadings. The number of ring loadings into which the actual load should be resolved depends upon the rate at which the distributed load varies along the radius and the accuracy desired. In general, a division of the load into rings each having a width equal to one-fifth the loaded length of the radius should be sufficient.

If the nonuniformly distributed loading can be reasonably approximated by a second-order curve, the loadings in Table 11.2, cases 2-4, can be superimposed in the necessary proportions. (This technique is illustrated in Sec. 11.6.) Heap (Ref. 48) gives tabular data for circular plates loaded with a lateral pressure varying inversely with the square of the radius.

**Concentrated loads.** In Refs. 60 and 75-79 similar numerical techniques are discussed for concentrated loads on either of two concentric annular plates in combination with edge beams in some cases. The numerical data presented are limited but are enough to enable the reader to approximate many other cases.

## 11.6 Circular Plates on Elastic Foundations

Discussions of the theory of bending of circular plates on elastic foundations can be found in Refs. 21 and 46, and in Ref. 41 of Chap. 8. The complexity of these solutions prohibits their inclusion in this handbook, but a simple *iterative* approach to this problem is possible.