## 17.4 References

1. Peterson, R. E.: “Stress Concentration Factors,” John Wiley & Sons, 1974.
2. Isida, M.: On the Tension of the Strip with Semicircular Notches, *Trans. Jap. Soc. Mech. Eng.*, vol. 19, no. 83, 1953.
3. Ling, C-B: On Stress-Concentration Factor in a Notched Strip, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 35, no. 4, 1968.
4. Flynn, P. D., and A. A. Roll: A Comparison of Stress-concentration Factors in Hyperbolic and U-shaped Grooves, *Exp. Mech., J. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 7, no. 1967.
5. Flynn, P. D.: Photoelastic Comparison of Stress Concentrations Due to Semicircular Grooves and a Circular Hole in a Tension Bar, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 36, no. 4, December 1969.
6. Slot, T., and D. F. Mowbray: A Note on Stress-Concentration Factors for Symmetric U-shaped Notches in Tension Strips, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 36, no. 4, 1969.
7. Kikukawa, M.: Factors of Stress Concentration for Notched Bars under Tension and Bending, *Proc., 10th Int. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, Stresa, Italy, 1960.
8. Frocht, M.: Factors of Stress Concentration Photoelastically Determined, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 2, no. 2, 1935.
9. Neuber, H.: Notch Stress Theory, *Tech. Rep.* AFML-TR-65-225, July 1965.
10. Baratta, F. I.: Comparison of Various Formulae and Experimental Stress-Concentration Factors for Symmetrical U-notched Plates, *J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 7, no. 2, 1972.
11. Wilson, I. H., and D. J. White: Stress-Concentration Factors for Shoulder Fillets and Grooves in Plates, *J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 8, no. 1, 1973.
12. Ling, C-B.: On the Stresses in a Notched Strip, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 19, no. 2, 1952.
13. Lee, G. H.: The Influence of Hyperbolic Notches on the Transverse Flexure of Elastic Plates, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 62, 1940.
14. Shioya, S.: The Effect of Square and Triangular Notches with Fillets on the Transverse Flexure of Semi-Infinite Plates, *Z. angew. Math. Mech.*, vol. 39, 1959.
15. Appl, F. J., and D. R. Koerner: Stress Concentration Factors for U-shaped, Hyperbolic and Rounded V-shaped Notches, *ASME Pap.* 69-DE-2, Engineering Society Library, United Engineering Center, New York, 1969.
16. Cole, A. G., and A. F. C. Brown: Photoelastic Determination of Stress Concentration Factors Caused by a Single U-Notch on One Side of a Plate in Tension, *J. Roy. Aeronaut. Soc.*, vol. 62, 1958.
17. Roark, R. J., R. S. Hartenberg, and R. Z. Williams: Influence of Form and Scale on Strength, *Univ. Wis. Eng. Exp. Sta. Bull.*, 1938.
18. Leven, M. M., and M. M. Frocht: Stress Concentration Factors for a Single Notch in a Flat Bar in Pure and Central Bending, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 11, no. 2, 1953.
19. Fessler, H., C. C. Rogers, and P. Stanley: Shouldered Plates and Shafts in Tension and Torsion, *J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 4, no. 3, 1969.
20. Hartman, J. B., and M. M. Leven: Factors of Stress Concentration for the Bending Case of Fillets in Flat Bars and Shafts with Central Enlarged Section, *Proc. Soc. Exp. Stress Anal.*, vol. 19, no. 1, 1951.
21. Kumagai, K., and H. Shimada: The Stress Concentration Produced by a Projection under Tensile Load, *Bull. Jap. Soc. Mech. Eng.*, vol. 11, 1968.
22. Derecho, A. T., and W. H. Munse: Stress Concentration at External Notches in Members Subjected to Axial Loading, *Univ. Ill. Eng. Exp. Sta. Bull. 494*, 1968.
23. Roark, R. J.: “Formulas for Stress and Strain,” 4th ed., McGraw-Hill, 1965.
24. Savin, G. N.: “Stress Concentration Around Holes,” Pergamon Press, 1961.
25. Heywood, R. B.: “Designing by Photoelasticity,” Chapman & Hall, 1952.
26. Goodier, J. N.: Influence of Circular and Elliptical Holes on Transverse Flexure of Elastic Plates, *Phil. Mag.*, vol 22, 1936.
27. Goodier, J. N., and G. H. Lee: An Extension of the Photoelastic Method of Stress Measurement to Plates in Transverse Bending, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 63, 1941.
28. Drucker, D. C.: The Photoelastic Analysis of Transverse Bending of Plates in the Standard Transmission Polariscope, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 64, 1942.