## SEC. 8.8

# Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars

For the tapered beam,

$$
I_A=\frac{4(10^3)-2.5(6^3)}{12}=288.3\ \mathrm{mm}^4
$$

$$
I_B=\frac{8(14^3)-6.5(10^3)}{12}=1287.7\ \mathrm{mm}^4
$$

and at midlength where $x=l/2$, the moment of inertia is given by

$$
I_{l/2}=\frac{6(12^3)-4.5(8^3)}{12}=672.0\ \mathrm{mm}^4
$$

Using the formula for the variation of $I$ with $x$ and these three values for the moment of inertia, approximate values for $K$ and $n$ can be found.

$$
I_B=I_A(1+K)^n,\qquad I_{l/2}=I_A\left(1+\frac{K}{2}\right)^n
$$

$$
\frac{1287.7}{288.3}=4.466=(1+K)^n,\qquad \frac{672}{288.3}=2.331=\left(1+\frac{K}{2}\right)^n
$$

$$
4.466^{1/n}-2(2.331)^{1/n}+1=0
$$

Solving this last expression gives $1/n=0.35$, $n=2.86$, and $K=0.689$.

An examination of Tables 8.11($a$-$d$) shows that for a fixed-ended beam with a concentrated load, which is case 1d in Table 8.1, values of coefficients are given only for $a/l=0.25$ and 0.50. For this problem $a/l=0.375$. Simple linear interpolation is not sufficiently accurate. However, if one imagines the load at $a/l=0.25$ the values for $R_A$ and $M_A$ can be found. This procedure can be repeated for $a/l=0.50$. Two other sets of data are also available. If the load were placed at the left end, $a/l=0$, $M_A=0$, $R_A=100\ \mathrm{N}$, and $dM_A/da=-100\ \mathrm{N}$. If the load were placed at the right end, $a/l=1$, $R_A=0$, $M_A=0$, and $dM_A/da=0$. The variations of the tabulated coefficients with $I_B/I_A$ and with $n$ do not pose a comparable problem since many data are available. Plotting curves for the variation with $I_B/I_A$ and interpolating linearly between $n=2$ and $n=3$ for $n=2.86$ give the coefficients used below to find the values for $R_A$ and $M_A$ at $a/l=0.25$ and 0.50:

|  | Untapered beam |  | Tapered beam where $n=2.86$ and $I_B/I_A=4.466$ |  |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $a/l$ | 0.25 | 0.50 | 0.25 | 0.50 |
| $R_A$ (N) | 84.38 | 50.00 | $84.38(0.922)=77.80$ | $50(0.0805)=40.25$ |
| $M_A$ (N-mm) | $-11{,}250$ | $-10{,}000$ | $-11{,}250(0.788)=-8865$ | $-10{,}000(0.648)=-6480$ |

Plotting these values of $R_A$ and $M_A$ versus $a/l$ for the four positions allows one to pick from the graphs at $a/l=0.375$, $R_A=60\ \mathrm{N}$, and $M_A=-8800\ \mathrm{N}$-mm. The use of static equilibrium now gives $M_B=-10{,}800\ \mathrm{N}$-mm and the moment at the load of $9200\ \mathrm{N}$-mm. The bending stress at the left end is found to be the largest.

$$
\sigma_A=\frac{M_Ac_A}{I_A}=\frac{8800(5)}{288.3}=152.6\ \mathrm{MPa}
$$