# Formulas for Stress and Strain

been included in the expressions found in this table. Since deforma-
tions due to transverse shear and axial loading are not included, the
results are limited to those frames made up of members which are long
in proportion to their depths (see assumptions 6 to 8 in Sec. 8.1). Each
member must be straight and of uniform cross section having a
principal axis lying in the plane of the frame. The elastic stability of
the frame, either in the plane of the frame or out of this plane, has not
been treated in developing Table 8.2. The effects of axial load on the
bending deformations, as documented in Tables 8.7–8.9, have not been
considered. A final check on a solution must verify that indeed these
effects can be neglected. Very extensive compilations of formulas for
rigid frames are available, notably those of Kleinlogel (Ref. 56) and
Leontovich (Ref. 57).

While Table 8.2 is obviously designed for frames with three
members where the vertical members both lie on the same side of
the horizontal member, its use is not limited to this configuration. One
can set the lengths of either of the vertical members, members 1 and 2,
equal to zero and solve for reactions and deformations of two-member
frames. The length of the horizontal member, member 3, should not be
set to zero for two reasons: (1) It does not generally represent a real
problem; and (2) the lengths of members 1 and 2 are assumed not to
change, and this adds a restraint to member 3 that would force it to
have zero slope if its length was very short. Another very useful
application of the expressions in Table 8.2 is to apply them to frames
where one of the two vertical members lies on the opposite side of the
horizontal member. Instead of forming a U-shape in the side view, it
forms a Z-shape. To do this one must change the signs of three
variables associated with the reversed member: (1) the sign of the
length of the reversed member, (2) the sign of the distance $a$ which
locates any load on the reversed member, and (3) the sign of the
product $EI$ of the reversed member. All the reactions and end-point
deflections retain their directions as given in the figures in Table 8.2;
that is, if member 1 is reversed and extends upward from the left end
of member 3, $H_A$ now acts at the upper end of member 1 and is
positive to the left as is $\delta_{H_A}$. Example 3 illustrates this application
as well as showing how the results of using Tables 8.1 and 8.2
together can be used to determine the deformations anywhere in a
given frame.

When the number of members is large, as in a framed building, a
relaxation method such as moment distribution might be used or a
digital computer could be programmed to solve the large number of
equations. In all rigid frames, corner or knee design is important;
much information and experimental data relating to this problem are
to be found in the reports published by the Fritz Engineering Labora-
tories of Lehigh University. The frames given in Table 8.2 are assumed
to have rigid corners; however, corrections can be made easily once the