SEC. 6.4]  
# Experimental Methods

101

slightly distended by pressure from one side, the volumes of the bubbles thus formed are proportional to the torsional rigidities of the corresponding sections and the slope of a bubble surface at any point is proportional to the stress caused at that point of the corresponding section by a given twist per unit length of bar. By cutting in the plate one hole the shape of the section to be studied and another hole that is circular, the torsional properties of the irregular section can be determined by comparing the bubble formed on the hole of that shape with the bubble formed on the circular hole since the torsional properties of the circular section are known.

**Electrical analogy for isopachic lines.** *Isopachic lines* are lines along which the sums of the principal stresses are equal in a two-dimensional plane stress problem. The voltage at any point on a uniform two-dimensional conducting surface is governed by the same form of equation as is the principal stress sum. Teledeltos paper is a uniform layer of graphite particles on a paper backing and makes an excellent material from which to construct the electrical analog. The paper is cut to a geometric outline corresponding to the shape of the two-dimensional structure or part, and boundary potentials are applied by an adjustable power supply. The required boundary potentials are obtained from a photoelastic study of the part where the principal stress sums can be found from the principal stress differences on the boundaries (Refs. 2 and 3). A similar membrane analogy has the height of a nonpressurized membrane proportional to the principal stress sum (Refs. 2 and 3).