# Formulas for Stress and Strain

[CHAP. 4]

shows that the critical unit compressive stress is greater for a thin plate under edge loading than for a strip of that plate regarded as an Euler column. Common sense and judgment should generally serve to prevent the acceptance of grossly erroneous calculations.

4. A difficulty frequently encountered is uncertainty as to boundary conditions—whether a beam or flat plate should be calculated as freely supported or fixed, whether a load should be assumed uniformly or otherwise distributed, etc. In any such case it is a good plan to make *bracketing assumptions*, i.e., to calculate the desired quantity on the basis of each of two assumptions representing limits between which the actual conditions must lie. Thus for a beam with ends having an unknown degree of fixity, the bending moment at the center cannot be more than if the ends were freely supported and the bending moments at the ends cannot be more than if the ends were truly fixed. If so designed as to be safe for either extreme condition, the beam will be safe for any intermediate degree of fixity.

5. The stress and deflections predicted by most formulas do not account for localized effects of the loads. For example, the stresses and deflections given for a straight, simply-supported beam with a centered, concentrated lateral force only account for that due to bending. Additional compressive bearing stresses and deflections exist depending on the exact nature of the interaction of the applied and reaction forces with the beam. Normally, the state of stress and deformation at distances greater than the dimensions of the loaded regions only depend on the *net* effect of the localized applied and reaction forces and are independent of the form of these forces. This is an application of *Saint Venant’s principle* (defined in Appendix B). This principle may not be reliable for thin-walled structures or for some orthotropic materials.

6. Formulas concerning the validity of which there is a reason for doubt, especially empirical formulas, should be checked dimensionally. If such a formula expresses the results of some intermediate condition, it should be checked for extreme or terminal conditions; thus an expression for the deflection of a beam carrying a uniform load over a portion of its length should agree with the corresponding expression for a fully loaded beam when the loaded portion becomes equal to the full length and should vanish when the loaded portion becomes zero.

## 4.8 References

1. Love, A. E. H.: “Mathematical Theory of Elasticity,” 2nd ed., Cambridge University Press, 1906.  
2. Morley, A.: “Theory of Structures,” 5th ed., Longmans, Green, 1948.  
3. Langhaar, H. L.: “Energy Methods in Applied Mechanics,” John Wiley & Sons, 1962.  
4. Timoshenko, S., and J. M. Gere: “Theory of Elastic Stability,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1961.