SEC. 9.5]

Curved Beams 297

# 9.5 Curved Beams Loaded Normal to Plane of Curvature

This type of beam usually presents a statically indeterminate problem, the degree of indeterminacy depending upon the manner of loading and support. Both bending and twisting occur, and it is necessary to distinguish between an analysis that is applicable to compact or flangeless sections (circular, rectangular, etc.) in which torsion does not produce secondary bending and one that is applicable to flanged sections (I-beams, channels, etc.) in which torsion may be accompanied by such secondary bending (see Sec. 10.3). It is also necessary to distinguish among three types of constraints that may or may not occur at the supports, namely: (1) the beam is prevented from *sloping*, its horizontal axis held horizontal by a bending couple; (2) the beam is prevented from *rolling*, its vertical axis held vertical by a twisting couple; and (3) in the case of a flanged section, the flanges are prevented from turning about their vertical axes by horizontal secondary bending couples. These types of constraints will be designated here as (1) fixed as to slope, (2) fixed as to roll, and (3) flanges fixed.

**Compact sections.** Table 9.4 treats the curved beam of uniform cross section under concentrated and distributed loads normal to the plane of curvature, out-of-plane concentrated bending moments, and concentrated and distributed torques. Expressions are given for transverse shear, bending moment, twisting moment, deflection, bending slope, and roll slope for 10 combinations of end conditions. To keep the presentation to a reasonable size, use is made of the singularity functions discussed in detail previously and an extensive list of constants and functions is given. In previous tables the representative functional values have been given, but in Table 9.4 the value of $\beta$ depends upon both bending and torsional properties, and so a useful set of tabular values would be too large to present. The curved beam or ring of circular cross section is so common, however, that numerical coefficients are given in the table for $\beta = 1.3$ which will apply to a solid or hollow circular cross section of material for which Poisson's ratio is 0.3.

Levy (Ref. 14) has treated the closed circular ring of arbitrary compact cross section for six loading cases. These cases have been chosen to permit apropriate superposition in order to solve a large number of problems, and both isolated and distributed out-of-plane loads are discussed. Hogan (Ref. 18) presents similar loadings and supports. In a similar way the information in Table 9.4 can be used by appropriate superposition to solve most out-of-plane loading problems on closed rings of compact cross section if strict attention is given to