SEC. 3.2] The Behavior of Bodies under Stress 37

and the moving mass are assumed to stop moving simultaneously. The shape of the elastic axis of the deflected beam or bar is thus the same as in static loading. A special case of this loading, generally called *sudden loading*, occurs when a mass that is not moving is released when in contact with a beam and falls through the distance the beam deflects. This produces approximately twice the stress and deflection that would have been produced had the mass been “eased” onto the beam (see Sec. 16.4). The second case of impact loading involves the mass of the member being struck. *Stress waves* travel through the member during the impact and continue even after the impacting mass has rebounded (see Sec. 16.3).

On consideration, it is obvious that methods of loading really differ only in degree. As the time required for the load to be applied increases, short-time static loading changes imperceptibly into long-time static loading; impact may be produced by a body moving so slowly that the resulting stress conditions are practically the same as though equal deflection had been produced by static loading; the number of stress repetitions at which fatigue becomes involved is not altogether definite. Furthermore, all these methods of loading may be combined or superimposed in various ways. Nonetheless, the classification presented is convenient because most structural and machine parts function under loading that may be classified definitely as one of the types described.

## 3.2 Elasticity; Proportionality of Stress and Strain

In determining stress by mathematical analysis, it is customary to assume that material is elastic, isotropic, homogeneous, and infinitely divisible without change in properties and that it conforms to Hooke’s law, which states that strain is proportional to stress. Actually, none of these assumptions is strictly true. A structural material is usually an aggregate of crystals, fibers, or cemented particles, the arrangement of which may be either random or systematic. When the arrangement is random the material is essentially isotropic if the part considered is large in comparison with the constituent units; when the arrangement is systematic, the elastic properties and strength are usually different in different directions and the material is anisotropic. Again, when subdivision is carried to the point where the part under consideration comprises only a portion of a single crystal, fiber, or other unit, in all probability its properties will differ from those of a larger part that is an aggregate of such units. Finally, very careful experiments show that for all materials there is probably some set and some deviation from Hooke’s law for any stress, however small.

These facts impose certain limitations upon the conventional methods of stress analysis and must often be taken into account, but