264  **Formulas for Stress and Strain**  **[CHAP. 8]**

4. Bach, C.: Zur Beigungsfestigkeit des Gusseisens, *Z. Vereines Dtsch. Ing.*, vol. 32, p. 1089, 1888.  
5. Schlick, W. J., and B. A. Moore: Strength and Elastic Properties of Cast Iron, *Iowa Eng. Exp. Sta., Iowa State College, Bull. 127*, 1930.  
6. Symposium on Cast Iron, *Proc. ASTM*, vol. 33, part II, p. 115, 1933.  
7. Roark, R. J., R. S. Hartenberg, and R. Z. Williams: The Effect of Form and Scale on Strength, *Eng. Exp. Sta., Univ. Wis., Bull. 82*, 1938.  
8. Newlin, J. A., and G. W. Trayer: Form Factors of Beams Subjected to Transverse Loading Only, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Rept. 181*, 1924.  
9. “Wood Handbook,” Forest Products Laboratory, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, 1987.  
10. Ashwell, D. G.: The Anticlastic Curvature of Rectangular Beams and Plates, *J. R. Aeron. Soc.*, vol. 54, 1950.  
11. Ketchum, M. S., and J. O. Draffin Strength of Light I-beams, *Eng. Exp. Sta., Univ. Ill., Bull. 241*, 1932.  
12. Wendt, K. F., and M. O. Withey: The Strength of Light Steel Joists, *Eng. Exp. Sta., Univ. Wis., Bull. 79*, 1934.  
13. American Institute of Steel Construction: “Specifications for the Design, Fabrication and Erection of Structural Steel for Buildings,” 1978.  
14. Younger, J. E.: “Structural Design of Metal Airplanes,” McGraw-Hill, 1935.  
15. Lyse, I., and H. J. Godfrey: Investigation of Web Buckling in Steel Beams, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 100, p. 675, 1935.  
16. Moore, H. F.: The Strength of I-beams in Flexure, *Eng. Exp. Sta., Univ. Ill., Bull. 68*, 1913.  
17. Dumont, C., and H. N. Hill: The Lateral Instability of Deep Rectangular Beams, *Nat. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note 601*, 1937.  
18. Trayer, G. W., and H. W. March: Elastic Instability of Members having Sections Common in Aircraft Construction, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Rept. 382*, 1931.  
19. Newlin, J. A., and G. W. Trayer: Deflection of Beams with Special Reference to Shear Deformation, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Rept. 180*, 1924.  
20. McCutcheon, William J.: Deflections and Stresses in Circular Tapered Beams and Poles, *Civ. Eng. Pract. Des. Eng.*, vol. 2, 1983.  
21. Timoshenko, S.: Mathematical Determination of the Modulus of Elasticity, *Mech. Eng.*, vol. 45, p. 259, 1923.  
22. Holl, D. L: Analysis of Thin Rectangular Plates Supported on Opposite Edges, *Iowa Eng. Exp. Sta., Iowa State College, Bull. 129*, 1936.  
23. Westergaard, H. M.: Computation of Stress Due to Wheel Loads, *Public Roads*, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Bureau of Public Roads, vol. 11, p. 9, 1930.  
24. Morris, C. T.: Concentrated Loads on Slabs, *Ohio State Univ. Eng. Exp. Sta. Bull.* 80, 1933.  
25. Kelley, E. F.: Effective Width of Concrete Bridge Slabs Supporting Concentrated Loads, *Public Roads*, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Bureau of Public Roads, vol. 7, no. 1, 1926.  
26. MacGregor, C. W.: Deflection of Long Helical Gear Tooth, *Mech. Eng.*, vol. 57, p. 225, 1935.  
27. Holl, D. L.: Cantilever Plate with Concentrated Edge Load, *ASME Paper A-8, J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 4, no. 1, 1937.  
28. Miller, A. B.: Die mittragende Breite, and Über die mittragende Breite, *Luftfahrtforsch.*, vol. 4, no. 1, 1929.  
29. Hetényi, M.: Application of Maclaurin Series to the Analysis of Beams in Bending, *J. Franklin Inst.*, vol. 254, 1952.  
30. Kuhn, P., J. P. Peterson, and L. R. Levin: A Summary of Diagonal Tension, Parts I and II, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Notes* 2661 and 2662, 1952.  
31. Schwalbe, W. L. S.: The Center of Torsion for Angle and Channel Sections, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 54, no. 11, p. 125, 1932.  
32. Young, A. W., E. M. Elderton, and K. Pearson: “On the Torsion Resulting from Flexure in Prisms with Cross-sections of Uniaxial Symmetry,” Drapers’ Co. Research Memoirs, tech. ser. 7, 1918.  
33. Maurer, E. R., and M. O. Withey: “Strength of Materials,” John Wiley & Sons, 1935.  
34. Peery, D. J.: “Aircraft Structures,” McGraw-Hill, 1950.