# Chapter 6

# Experimental Methods

A structural member may be of such a form or may be loaded in such a way that the direct use of formulas for the calculation of stresses and strain produced in it is ineffective. One then must resort either to numerical techniques such as the finite element method or to experimental methods. Experimental methods can be applied to the actual member in some cases, or to a model thereof. Which choice is made depends upon the results desired, the accuracy needed, the practicality of size, and the cost associated with the experimental method. There has been a tremendous increase in the use of numerical methods over the years, but the use of experimental methods is still very effective. Many investigations make use of both numerical and experimental results to cross-feed information from one to the other for increased accuracy and cost effectiveness (see Chap. 17 in Ref. 27). Some of the more important experimental methods are described briefly in Sec. 6.1 of this chapter. Of these methods, the most popular method employs electrical resistance strain gages, and is described in more detail in Sec. 6.2. Only textbooks, reference books, handbooks, and lists of journals are referenced, since there are several organizations (see Refs. 1, 25, and 26) devoted either partially or totally to experimental methods, and a reasonable listing of papers would be excessive and soon out of date. The most useful reference for users wanting information on experimental methods is Ref. 27, the “Handbook on Experimental Mechanics,” edited by A. S. Kobayashi and dedicated to the late Dr. M. Hetenyi, who edited Ref. 2. Reference 27 contains 22 chapters contributed by 27 authors under the sponsorship of the Society for Experimental Mechanics. Experimental methods applied specifically to the field of fracture mechanics are treated extensively in Refs. 13, 15, 17, 19, 22, and Chaps. 14 and 20 of Ref. 27.

81