SEC. 8.13] Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars 175

the moments of inertia about the neutral axis of the beam of the side plates and cover plates, respectively. (The values tabulated from Ref. 38 are for $G/E = 0.375$ and $m = 2$.) The value of $b'/b$ increases with increasing $m$, but for values of $m$ between 1.5 and 2.5 the variation is small enough to be disregarded. Shear lag at the critical section does not seem to be affected appreciably by the taper of the beam in width, but the taper in cover-plate thickness may have an important effect. In beams with fixed ends the effect of shear lag at the end sections is the same as for a cantilever of span equal to the distance from the point of inflection to the adjacent end.

In Ref. 39 it is stated that for a given $l/b$ ratio the effect of shear lag is practically the same for box, I-, T-, and U-beams.

**Flange in compression.** The preceding discussion and tabulated factors apply to any case in which the flange is subjected to tension or to compression less than that required to produce elastic instability (see Chap. 15). When a thin flange or sheet is on the compression side, however, it may be stressed beyond the stability limit. For this condition, the effective width decreases with the actual stress. A formula for effective width used in aircraft design is

$$
b' = Kt\sqrt{\frac{E}{s}}
$$

where $s$ is the maximum compressive stress (adjacent to the supporting web or webs) and $K$ is a coefficient which may be conservatively taken as 0.85 for box beams and 0.60 for a T- or an I-beam having flanges with unsupported outer edges.

A theoretical analysis that takes into account both compressive buckling and shear lag is described in Ref. 40. Problems involving shear lag and buckling are most frequently encountered in design with thin-gage metal; good guides to such design are the books “Cold-Formed Steel Design Manual” in 5 parts including commentary, published in 1982 by the American Iron and Steel Institute, and “Aluminum Construction Manual,” 4th ed., published in 1981 by the Aluminum Association. See also Ref. 68.

## 8.13 Beams with Very Thin Webs

In beams with extremely thin webs, such as are used in airplane construction, buckling due to shear will occur at stresses well below the elastic limit. This can be prevented if the web is made *shear-resistant* by the addition of stiffeners such as those used in plate girders, but the number of these required may be excessive. Instead of making the web shear-resistant, it may be permitted to buckle