**384** **Formulas for Stress and Strain** **[CHAP. 10]**

formed over holes of corresponding size and shape. From the volume relationship, it can be seen that of two sections having the same area, the one more nearly circular is the stiffer, and that although any extension whatever of the section increases its torsional stiffness, narrow outstanding flanges and similar protrusions have little effect. It is also apparent that any member having a narrow section, such as a thin plate, has practically the same torsional stiffness when flat as when bent into the form of an open tube or into channel or angle section.

From the slope relationship it can be seen that the greatest stresses (slopes) in a given section occur at the boundary adjacent to the thicker portions, and that the stresses are very low at the ends of outstanding flanges or protruding corners and very high at points where the boundary is sharply concave. Therefore a longitudinal slot or groove that is sharp at the bottom or narrow will cause high local stresses, and if it is deep will greatly reduce the torsional stiffness of the member. The direction of the shear stresses at any point is along the contour of the bubble surface at the corresponding point, and at points corresponding to local maximum and minimum elevations of the bubble having zero slopes in all directions the shear stress is zero. Therefore there may be several points of zero shear stress in a section. Thus for an I-section, there are high points of zero slope at the center of the largest inscribed circles (at the junction of web and flanges) and a low point of zero slope at the center of the web, and eight points of zero slope at the external corners. At these points in the section the shear stress is zero.

The preceding generalizations apply to solid sections, but it is possible to make somewhat similar generalizations concerning hollow or tubular sections from the formulas given for cases 10-16. These formulas show that the strength and stiffness of a hollow section depend largely upon the area inclosed by the median boundary. For this reason a circular tube is stiffer and stronger than one of any other form, and the more nearly the form of any hollow section approaches the circular, the greater will be its strength and stiffness. It is also apparent from the formulas for strength that even a local reduction in the thickness of the wall of a tube, such as would be caused by a longitudinal groove, may greatly increase the maximum shear stress, though if the groove is narrow the effect on stiffness will be small.

The torsional strengths and stiffnesses of thin-walled multicelled structures such as airplane wings and boat hulls can be calculated by the same procedures as for single-celled sections. The added relationships needed are developed from the fact that all cells twist at the same angular rate at a given section (Ref. 1).