SEC. 8.15] Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars 183

relevant formulas are given in Table 15.1. For buckling above the elastic range analytical solutions are difficult to obtain, and empirical expressions based on experiment are used (as will be shown to be true also of the columns discussed in Chap. 12).

Moore (Ref. 16) found that standard I-beams fail by lateral buckling when

$$
s' = 40{,}000 - 60 \frac{ml}{r}
$$

where $s'$ is the compressive stress in the extreme fiber [computed by Eq. (8.1-1)], $l$ is the span (in inches), $r$ is the radius of gyration (in inches) of the beam section about a central axis parallel to the web, and $m$ is a coefficient which depends on the manner of loading and support and has the following values:

| Loading and support | Value of $m$ |
|---|---:|
| End supports, uniform load | 0.667 |
| End supports, midpoint load | 0.500 |
| End supports, single load at any point | 0.500 |
| End supports, loads at third points | 0.667 |
| End supports, loads at quarter points | 0.750 |
| End supports, loads at sixth points | 0.833 |
| Cantilever beam, uniform load | 0.667 |
| Cantilever beam, end load | 1.000 |
| Fixed-ended beam, uniform load | 0.281 |
| Fixed-ended beam, midpoint load | 0.250 |

For very light I-beams, Ketchum and Draffin (Ref. 11) found that the lower limit of test results is given by

$$
s' = 24{,}000 - 40 \frac{ml}{r}
$$

where the terms have the same meaning and $m$ the same values as given previously.

The beams tested by Moore generally failed at stresses below but very close to the yield point and so probably could be regarded as representing plastic buckling. The lighter beams tested by Ketchum and Draffin, however, failed at stresses below the limit of proportionality and are examples of elastic buckling.

In Ref. 13 rules are given for the reduction in allowable compressive stress according to the unbraced length of the compression flange. A review of the literature on this subject of the lateral buckling of structural members and a bibliography through 1959 are to be found in Ref. 58.