the previous example. See Fig. 9.1. Also keep clearly in mind that the bending in the plane of the curvature must be about a *principal* axis or the restraints described in the first paragraph of Sec. 9.1 must be present.

For all cross sections the value of the product $AeR$ approaches the value of the moment of inertia $I$ when the radius of curvature becomes greater than 10 times the depth. This is seen clearly in the following table where values of the ratio $AeR/I$ are given for several sections and curvatures.

| Case no. | Section | $R/d$ |  |  |  |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|
|  |  | 1 | 3 | 5 | 10 |
| 1 | Solid rectangle | 1.077 | 1.008 | 1.003 | 1.001 |
| 2 | Solid circle | 1.072 | 1.007 | 1.003 | 1.001 |
| 5 | Triangle (base inward) | 0.927 | 0.950 | 0.976 | 0.988 |
| 6 | Triangle (base outward) | 1.268 | 1.054 | 1.030 | 1.014 |

For curved beams of large radius the effect on deflections of the shear stresses due to $V$ and the circumferential normal stresses due to $N$ were small unless the length was small. For sharply curved beams the effects of these stresses must be considered. Only the effects of the radial stresses $\sigma_r$ will be neglected. The expression for the complementary energy including all but the radial stresses is given by

$$
U_f=\int \frac{M^2}{2AEe}\,dx+\int \frac{FV^2R}{2AG}\,dx+\int \frac{N^2R}{2AE}\,dx-\int \frac{MN}{AE}\,dx
\qquad (9.2\text{-}2)
$$

where all the quantities are defined in the notation at the top of Table 9.2.

The last term, hereafter referred to as the *coupling* term, involves the complementary energy developed from coupling the strains from the bending moment $M$ and the normal force $N$. A positive bending moment $M$ produces a negative strain at the position of the *centroidal* axis in a curved beam, and the resultant normal force $N$ passes through the centroid. Reasons have been given for and against including the coupling term in attempts to improve the accuracy of calculated deformations (see Refs. 3 and 29). Ken Tepper, Ref. 30, called attention to the importance of the coupling term for sharply curved beams. The equations in Tables 9.2 and 9.3 have been modified and now include the effect of the coupling term. With this change, the formulas given in Tables 9.2 and 9.3 for the indeterminate reactions and for the deformations are no longer limited to thin rings and arches