298  **Formulas for Stress and Strain**  [CHAP. 9]

the symmetry and boundary conditions involved. Several simple examples of this reasoning are described in the following three cases.

1. If a closed circular ring is supported on any number of equally spaced simple supports (two or more) and if identical loading on each span is symmetrically placed relative to the center of the span, then each span can be treated by boundary condition f of Table 9.4. This boundary condition has both ends with no deflection or slope, although they are free to roll as needed.

2. If a closed circular ring is supported on any even number of equally spaced simple supports and if the loading on any span is antisymmetrically placed relative to the center line of each span and symmetrically placed relative to each support, then boundary condition f can be applied to each full span. This problem can also be solved by applying boundary condition g to each half span. Boundary condition g has one end simply supported and slope-guided and the other end simply supported and roll-guided.

3. If a closed circular ring is supported on any even number of equally spaced simple supports (four or more) and if each span is symmetrically loaded relative to the center of the span with adjacent spans similarly loaded in opposite directions, then boundary condition i can be applied to each span. This boundary condition has both ends simply supported and roll-guided.

Once any indeterminate reaction forces and moments have been found and the indeterminate internal reactions found at at least one location in the ring, all desired internal bending moment, torques, and transverse shears can be found by equilibrium equations. If a large number of such calculations need be made, one should consider using a theorem published in 1922 by Biezeno. For details of this theorem see Ref. 32. A brief illustration of this work for loads normal to the plane of the ring is given in Ref. 29.

A treatment of curved beams on elastic foundations is beyond the scope of this book. See Ref. 20.

The following examples illustrate the applications of the formulas in Table 9.4 to both curved beams and closed rings with out-of-plane loads.

## EXAMPLES

**1.** A piece of 8-in standard pipe is used to carry water across a passageway 40 ft wide. The pipe must come out of a wall normal to the surface and enter normal to a parallel wall at a position 16.56 ft down the passageway at the same elevation. To accomplish this a decision was made to bend the pipe into two opposite arcs of 28.28-ft radius with a total angle of 45° in each arc. If it is assumed that both ends are rigidly held by the walls, determine the maximum