# Chapter 2

# Stress and Strain: Important Relationships

Understanding the physical properties of stress and strain is a prerequisite to utilizing the many methods and results of structural analysis in design. This chapter provides the definitions and important relationships of stress and strain.

## 2.1 Stress

Stress is simply a distributed force on an external or internal surface of a body. To obtain a physical feeling of this idea, consider being submerged in water at a particular depth. The “force” of the water one feels at this depth is a pressure, which is a compressive *stress*, and not a finite number of “concentrated” forces. Other types of force distributions (stress) can occur in a liquid or solid. Tensile (pulling rather than pushing) and shear (rubbing or sliding) force distributions can also exist.

Consider a general solid body loaded as shown in Fig. 2.1(*a*). $P_i$ and $p_i$ are applied concentrated forces and applied surface force distributions, respectively; and $R_i$ and $r_i$ are possible support reaction force and surface force distributions, respectively. To determine the state of stress at point $Q$ in the body, it is necessary to expose a surface containing the point $Q$. This is done by making a planar slice, or break, through the body intersecting the point $Q$. The orientation of this slice is arbitrary, but it is generally made in a convenient plane where the state of stress can be determined easily or where certain geometric relations can be utilized. The first slice, illustrated in Fig. 2.1(*b*), is arbitrarily oriented by the surface normal $x$. This establishes the $yz$ plane. The external forces on the remaining body are shown, as well as the internal force (stress) distribution across the exposed internal

9