# Formulas for Stress and Strain

maxima, sometimes referred to as the *principal shear stresses*. These stresses together with their accompanying normal stresses are

**Plane 1, 2:**  
$$(\tau_{\max})_{1,2} = (\sigma_1 - \sigma_2)/2, \qquad (\sigma_{\text{ave}})_{1,2} = (\sigma_1 + \sigma_2)/2$$

**Plane 2, 3:**  
$$(\tau_{\max})_{2,3} = (\sigma_2 - \sigma_3)/2, \qquad (\sigma_{\text{ave}})_{2,3} = (\sigma_2 + \sigma_3)/2$$

**Plane 1, 3:**  
$$(\tau_{\max})_{1,3} = (\sigma_1 - \sigma_3)/2, \qquad (\sigma_{\text{ave}})_{1,3} = (\sigma_1 + \sigma_3)/2$$

$$(2.3\text{-}24)$$

Since conventional practice is to order the principal stresses by $\sigma_1 \geq \sigma_2 \geq \sigma_3$, the largest shear stress of all is given by the third of Eqs. (2.3-24) and will be repeated here for emphasis:

$$\tau_{\max} = (\sigma_1 - \sigma_3)/2 \qquad (2.3\text{-}25)$$

## EXAMPLE

In the previous example, the principal stresses for the stress matrix

$$[\sigma] = \begin{bmatrix} 5 & -4 \\ -4 & 11 \end{bmatrix} \text{ kpsi}$$

were found to be $(\sigma_1, \sigma_2, \sigma_3) = (13, 3, 0)$ kpsi. The orientation of the element containing the principal stresses was shown in Fig. 2.12(b), where axis 3 was the $z$ axis and normal to the page. Determine the maximum shear stress and show the orientation and complete state of stress of the element containing this stress.

**Solution.** The initial element and the transformed element containing the principal stresses are repeated in Fig. 2.14(a) and (b), respectively. The maximum shear stress will exist in the 1, 3 plane and is determined by substituting $\sigma_1 = 13$ and $\sigma_3 = 0$ into Eqs. (2.3-24). This results in

$$(\tau_{\max})_{1,3} = (13 - 0)/2 = 6.5 \text{ kpsi}, \qquad (\sigma_{\text{ave}})_{1,3} = (13 + 0)/2 = 6.5 \text{ kpsi}$$

To establish the orientation of these stresses, view the element along the axis containing $\sigma_2 = 3$ kpsi [view A, Fig. 2.14(c)] and rotate the surfaces $\pm 45^\circ$ as shown in Fig. 2.14(c).

The directional cosines associated with the surfaces are found through successive rotations. Rotating the $xyz$ axes to the 123 axes yields

$$
\begin{Bmatrix}
1 \\
2 \\
3
\end{Bmatrix}
=
\begin{bmatrix}
\cos 63.4^\circ & -\sin 63.4^\circ & 0 \\
\sin 63.4^\circ & \cos 63.4^\circ & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1
\end{bmatrix}
\begin{Bmatrix}
x \\
y \\
z
\end{Bmatrix}
$$

$$
=
\begin{bmatrix}
0.4472 & -0.8944 & 0 \\
0.8944 & 0.4472 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 1
\end{bmatrix}
\begin{Bmatrix}
x \\
y \\
z
\end{Bmatrix}
\qquad (a)
$$