## SEC. 8.1]

# Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars

133

moment about the neutral axis of all that part of the section above the neutral axis. Taking the moment of the flange and web portions separately, we find $A'\bar{y} = (2.75)(2.3)(2.30) + (1)(1.15)(0.575) = 15.2\ \text{in}^3$. Also, $b = 1.00$ in.

Since the section is not symmetrical about the neutral axis, the fiber stresses will be calculated at the section of maximum positive moment and at the section of maximum negative moment. We have

At $x = 75$ in: $\sigma =$  
$$
\begin{cases}
\frac{(33,750)(4)}{82.6} = 1630\ \text{lb/in}^2 & \text{(tension in bottom fiber)} \\
\frac{(33,750)(3.45)}{82.6} = 1410\ \text{lb/in}^2 & \text{(compression in top fiber)}
\end{cases}
$$

At $x = 160$ in: $\sigma =$  
$$
\begin{cases}
\frac{(9600)(4)}{82.6} = 456\ \text{lb/in}^2 & \text{(compression in bottom fiber)} \\
\frac{(9600)(3.45)}{82.6} = 400\ \text{lb/in}^2 & \text{(tension in top fibers)}
\end{cases}
$$

It is seen that for this beam the maximum fiber stresses in both tension and compression occur at the section of maximum positive bending moment. The maximum transverse shear stress is

$$
(\tau_{\max})_V = \frac{(1020)(15.2)}{(82.6)(1)} = 188\ \text{lb/in}^2
\qquad \text{[by Eq. (8.1-2)]}
$$

This is the maximum shear stress on a horizontal plane and occurs at the neutral axis of the section just to the left of the right support. The actual maximum shear stress is $\tau_{\max} = \frac{1}{2}\sigma_{\max} = \frac{1}{2} \times 1630 = 815\ \text{lb/in}^2$.

(c) For the steel I-beam, the structural steel handbook gives $I/c = 3.00\ \text{in}^3$ and $t = 0.190$ in. Therefore

$$
\sigma_{\max} = \frac{33,750}{3} = 11,250\ \text{lb/in}^2
$$

This stress occurs at $x = 75$ in, where the beam is subject to tension in the bottom fibers and compression in the top. The maximum transverse shear stress is approximated by

$$
(\tau_{\max})_V \approx \frac{1020}{(4)(0.19)} = 1340\ \text{lb/in}^2
$$

Although this method of calculating $\tau$ (where the shear force is assumed to be carried entirely by the web) is only approximate, it is usually sufficiently accurate to show whether or not this shear stress is important. If it indicates that this shear stress may govern, then the stress at the neutral axis may be calculated by Eq. (8.1-2). For standard I-beams, the allowable vertical shear is given by the structural-steel handbooks, making computation unnecessary.

**2.** The beam is shown in Fig. 8.3 has a rectangular section 2 in wide and 4 in deep and is made of spruce, where $E = 1,300,000\ \text{lb/in}^2$. It is required to determine the deflection of the left end.

**Solution.** The solution will be effected first by superposition, using the formulas of Table 8.1. The deflection $y$ of the left end is the sum of the