# Formulas for Stress and Strain

Table 10.3 provides the expressions necessary to evaluate the angle of rotation $\theta$ and the first three derivatives of $\theta$ along the span for a variety of loadings and boundary restraints. The formulas in this table are based on deformations from bending stresses in the thin-walled open cross sections due to warping restraint and consequently, since the transverse shear deformations of the beam action are neglected, are not applicable to cases where the torsion member is short or where the torsional loading is applied close to a support which provides warping restraint.

In a study of the effect on seven cross sections, all of which were approximately 4 in deep and had walls approximately 0.1 in thick, Schwaberlender (Ref. 28) tested them with one end fixed and the other end free to twist but not warp with the torsional loading applied to the latter end. He found that the effect of the transverse shear stress noticeably reduced the torsional stiffness of cross sections such as those shown in Table 10.2, cases 1 and 6-8, when the length was less than six times the depth; for sections such as those in cases 2-5 (Table 10.2), the effect became appreciable at even greater lengths. To establish an absolute maximum torsional stiffness constant we note that for any cross section, when the length approaches zero, the effective torsional stiffness constant $K'$ cannot exceed $J$, the polar moment of inertia, where $J = I_x + I_y$ for axes through the centroid of the cross section. (Example 1 illustrates this last condition.)

Reference 19 gives formulas and graphs for the angle of rotation and the first three derivatives for 12 cases of torsional loading of open cross sections. Payne (Ref. 15) gives the solution for a box girder that is fixed at one end and has a torque applied to the other. (This solution was also presented in detail in the fourth edition of this book.) Chu (Ref. 29) and Vlasov (Ref. 30) discuss solutions for cross sections with both open and closed parts. Kollbrunner and Basler (Ref. 31) discuss the warping of continuous beams and consider the multicellular box section, among other cross sections.

## EXAMPLES

**1.** A steel torsion member has a cross section in the form of a twin channel with flanges inward as dimensioned in Fig. 10.4. Both ends of this channel are rigidly welded to massive steel blocks to provide full warping restraint. A torsional load is to be applied to one end block while the other is fixed. Determine the angle of twist at the loaded end for an applied torque of 1000 lb-in for lengths of 100, 50, 25, and 10 in. Assume $E = 30(10^6)$ lb/in$^2$ and $\nu = 0.285$.

**Solution.** First determine cross-sectional constants, noting that $b = 4 - 0.1 = 3.9$ in, $b_1 = 1.95 - 0.05 = 1.9$ in, $h = 4 - 0.1 = 3.9$ in, and $t = 0.1$ in.