## SEC. 13.9] Shells of Revolution; Pressure Vessels; Pipes 687

28. von Kármán, Th., and Hsue-shen Tsien: Pressure Vessel and Piping Design, *ASME Collected Papers* 1927–1959.  
29. Galletly, G. D.: Edge Influence Coefficients for Toroidal Shells of Positive; Also Negative Gaussian Curvature, *ASME J. Eng. Ind.*, vol. 82, February 1960.  
30. Wenk, Edward, Jr., and C. E. Taylor: Analysis of Stresses at the Reinforced Intersection of Conical and Cylindrical Shells, *U.S. Dept. of the Navy, David W. Taylor Model Basin*, Rep. 826, March 1953.  
31. Taylor, C. E., and E. Wenk, Jr.: Analysis of Stresses in the Conical Elements of Shell Structures, *Proc. 2d U.S. Natl. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, 1954.  
32. Borg, M. F.: Observations of Stresses and Strains Near Intersections of Conical and Cylindrical Shells, *U.S. Dept. of the Navy, David W. Taylor Model Basin*, Rept. 911, March 1956.  
33. Raetz, R. V., and J. G. Pulos: A Procedure for Computing Stresses in a Conical Shell Near Ring Stiffeners or Reinforced Intersections, *U.S. Dept. of the Navy, David W. Taylor Model Basin*, Rept. 1015, April 1958.  
34. Narduzzi, E. D., and Georges Welter: High-Pressure Vessels Subjected to Static and Dynamic Loads, *Weld. J. Res. Suppl.*, 1954.  
35. Dubuc, J., and Georges Welter: Investigation of Static and Fatigue Resistance of Model Pressure Vessels, *Weld. J. Res. Suppl.*, July 1956.  
36. Kooistra, L. F., and M. M. Lemcoe: Low Cycle Fatigue Research on Full- size Pressure Vessels, *Weld. J.*, July 1962.  
37. Weil, N. A.: Bursting Pressure and Safety Factors for Thin-walled Vessels, *J. Franklin Inst.*, February 1958.  
38. Brownell, L. E., and E. H. Young: “Process Equipment Design: Vessel Design,” John Wiley & Sons, 1959.  
39. Faupel, J. H.: Yield and Bursting Characteristics of Heavy-wall Cylinders, *Trans. ASME*, vol. 78, no. 5, 1956.  
40. Dahl, N. C.: Toroidal-shell Expansion Joints, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 20, 1953.  
41. Laupa, A., and N. A. Weil: Analysis of U-shaped Expansion Joints, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 29, no. 1, 1962.  
42. Baker, B. R., and G. B. Cline, Jr.: Influence Coefficients for Thin Smooth Shells of Revolution Subjected to Symmetric Loads, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 29, no. 2, 1962.  
43. Tsui, E. Y. W., and J. M. Massard: Bending Behavior of Toroidal Shells, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng., J. Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 94, no. 2, 1968.  
44. Kraus, H.: “Thin Elastic Shells,” John Wiley & Sons, 1967.  
45. Pflüger, A.: “Elementary Statics of Shells,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1961 (English transl. by E. Galantay).  
46. Gerdeen J. C., and F. W. Niedenfuhr: Influence Numbers for Shallow Spherical Shells of Circular Ring Planform, *Proc. 8th Midwestern Mech. Conf., Development in Mechanics*, vol. 2, part 2, Pergamon Press, 1963.  
47. Zaremba, W. A.: Elastic Interactions at the Junction of an Assembly of Axi-symmetric Shells, *J. Mech. Eng. Sci.*, vol. 1, no. 3, 1959.  
48. Johns, R. H., and T. W. Orange: Theoretical Elastic Stress Distributions Arising from Discontinuities and Edge Loads in Several Shell-type Structures, *NASA Tech. Rept.* R-103, 1961.  
49. Stanek, F. J.: “Stress Analysis of Circular Plates and Cylindrical Shells,” Dorrance, 1970.  
50. Blythe, W., and E. L. Kyser: A Flügge-Vlasov Theory of Torsion for Thin Conical Shells, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 31, no. 3, 1964.  
51. Payne, D. J.: Numerical Analysis of the Axi-symmetric Bending of a Toroidal Shell, *J. Mech. Eng. Sci.*, vol. 4, no. 4, 1962.  
52. Rossettos, J. N., and J. L. Sanders Jr: Toroidal Shells Under Internal Pressure in the Transition Range, *AIAA J.*, vol. 3, no. 10, 1965.  
53. Jordan, P. F.: Stiffness of Thin Pressurized Shells of Revolution, *AIAA J.*, vol. 3, no. 5, 1965.  
54. Haringx, J. A.: Instability of Thin-walled Cylinders Subjected to Internal Pressure, *Phillips Res. Rept. 7.* 1952.  
55. Haringx, J. A.: Instability of Bellows Subjected to Internal Pressure, *Philips Res. Rept. 7*, 1952.