SEC. 3.8] The Behavior of Bodies under Stress 47

Over the past 100 years the effects of surface condition, corrosion, temperature, etc., on fatigue properties have been well documented, but only in recent years has the microscopic cause of fatigue damage been attributed to *cyclic plastic flow* in the material at the source of a fatigue crack (*crack initiation*) or at the tip of an existing fatigue crack (*crack propagation*; Ref. 20). The development of extremely sensitive extensometers has permitted the separation of elastic and plastic strains when testing axially loaded specimens over short gage lengths. With this instrumentation it is possible to determine whether cyclic loading is accompanied by significant cyclic plastic strain and, if it is, whether the cyclic plastic strain continues at the same level, increases, or decreases. Sandor (Ref. 44) discusses this instrumentation and its use in detail.

It is not feasible to reproduce here even a small portion of the fatigue data available for various engineering materials. The reader should consult materials handbooks, manufacturers’ literature, design manuals, and texts on fatigue. See Refs. 44 to 48. Some of the more important factors governing fatigue behavior in general will be outlined in the following material.

### Number of cycles to failure.

Most data concerning the number of cycles to failure are presented in the form of an $S$–$N$ curve where the cyclic stress amplitude is plotted versus the number of cycles to failure. This generally leads to a straight-line log–log plot if we account for the scatter in the data. For ferrous metals a lower limit exists on the stress amplitude and is called the *fatigue limit*, or *endurance limit*. This generally occurs at a life of from $10^5$ to $10^7$ cycles of reversed stress, and we assume that stresses below this limit will not cause failure regardless of the number of repetitions. With the ability to separate elastic and plastic strains accurately, there are instances when a plot of plastic-strain amplitudes versus $N$ and elastic-strain amplitudes versus $N$ will reveal more useful information (Refs. 44 and 45).

### Method of loading and size of specimen.

Uniaxial stress can be produced by axial load, bending, or a combination of both. In flat-plate bending, only the upper and lower surfaces are subjected to the full range of cyclic stress. In rotating bending, all surface layers are similarly stressed, but in axial loading, the entire cross section is subjected to the same average stress. Since fatigue properties of a material depend upon the statistical distribution of defects throughout the specimen, it is apparent that the three methods of loading will produce different results.

In a similar way, the size of a bending specimen will affect the fatigue behavior while it will have little effect on an axially loaded