# Formulas for Stress and Strain

combined simply by algebraic addition considering tensile stresses positive and compressive stresses negative. Similarly, shear stresses can be combined by algebraic addition following a consistent sign convention. Further analysis of the combined states of normal and shear stresses must be performed using the transformation techniques outlined in Sec. 2.3. The principal stresses, the maximum shear stress, and the normal and shear stresses on any given plane can be found by the equations given in Sec. 2.3.

The strains produced by any combination of stresses not exceeding the proportional limit can also be found using Hooke's law for each stress and then combined by superposition. Consideration of the strains caused by equal triaxial stresses leads to an expression for the bulk modulus of elasticity given by

$$
K = \frac{E}{3(1 - 2\nu)}
\qquad (7.7\text{-}1)
$$

## EXAMPLES

**1.** A rectangular block 12 in long, 4 in high, and 2 in thick is subjected to a longitudinal tensile stress $\sigma_x = 12{,}000\ \text{lb/in}^2$, a vertical compressive stress $\sigma_y = 15{,}000\ \text{lb/in}^2$, and a lateral compressive stress $\sigma_z = 9000\ \text{lb/in}^2$. The material is steel, for which $E = 30{,}000{,}000\ \text{lb/in}^2$ and $\nu = 0.30$. It is required to find the total change in length.

**Solution.** The longitudinal deformation is found by superposition: The unit strain due to each stress is computed separately by Eqs. (7.1-2) and (7.1-4); these results are added to give the resultant longitudinal unit strain, which is multiplied by the length to give the total elongation. Denoting unit longitudinal strain by $\epsilon_x$ and total longitudinal deflection by $\delta_x$, we have

$$
\epsilon_x = \frac{12{,}000}{E} - \nu\frac{-15{,}000}{E} - \nu\frac{-9000}{E}
$$

$$
= 0.000400 + 0.000150 + 0.000090 = +0.00064
$$

$$
\delta_x = 12(0.00064) = 0.00768\ \text{in}
$$

The lateral dimensions have nothing to do with the result since the lateral stresses, not the lateral loads, are given.

**2.** A piece of “standard extra-strong” pipe, 2 in nominal diameter, is simultaneously subjected to an internal pressure of $p = 2000\ \text{lb/in}^2$ and to a twisting moment of $T = 5000$ in-lb caused by tightening a cap screwed on at one end. Determine the maximum tensile stress and the maximum shear stress thus produced in the pipe.

**Solution.** The calculations will be made, first, for a point at the outer surface and, second, for a point at the inner surface. The dimensions of the pipe and properties of the cross section are as follows: inner radius $r_i = 0.9695$ in, outer radius $r_o = 1.1875$ in, cross-sectional area of bore $A_b = 2.955\ \text{in}^2$, cross-sectional area of pipe wall $A_w = 1.475\ \text{in}^2$, and polar moment of inertia $J = 1.735\ \text{in}^4$.