SEC. 5.2] Numerical Methods 75

ing computer hardware capabilities, efficient and accurate matrix solver routines, and computer graphics for ease in the preprocessing stages of model building, including automatic adaptive mesh generation, and in the postprocessing stages of reviewing the solution results. A great abundance of literature has been presented on the subject, including many textbooks. A partial list of some textbooks, introductory and more comprehensive, is given at the end of this chapter. For a brief introduction to FEM and modeling techniques, see Chapters 9 and 10, respectively, of Ref. 11.

FEM is ideally suited to digital computers, in which a continuous elastic structure (continuum) is divided (discretized) into small but finite well-defined substructures (*elements*). Using matrices, the continuous elastic behavior of each element is categorized in terms of the element's material and geometric properties, the distribution of loading (static, dynamic, and thermal) within the element, and the loads and displacements at the *nodes* of the element. The element's nodes are the fundamental governing entities of the element, since it is the node where the element connects to other elements, where elastic properties of the element are established, where boundary conditions are assigned, and where forces (contact or body) are ultimately applied. A node possesses *degrees of freedom* (dof's). Degrees of freedom are the translational and rotational motion that can exist at a node. At most, a node can possess three translational and three rotational degrees of freedom. Once each element within a structure is defined locally in matrix form, the elements are then globally assembled (attached) through their common nodes (dof's) into an overall system matrix. Applied loads and boundary conditions are then specified, and through matrix operations the values of all unknown displacement degrees of freedom are determined. Once this is done, it is a simple matter to use these displacements to determine strains and stresses through the constitutive equations of elasticity.

Many geometric shapes of elements are used in finite element analysis for specific applications. The various elements used in a general-purpose commercial FEM software code constitute what is referred to as the *element library* of the code. Elements can be placed in the following categories: *line elements, surface elements, solid elements*, and *special purpose elements*. Table 5.1 provides some, but not all, of the types of elements available for finite element analysis.

Since FEM is a numerical technique that discretizes the domain of a continuous structure, errors are inevitable. These errors are:

1. *Computational errors.* These are due to round-off errors from the computer floating-point calculations and the formulations of the numerical integration schemes that are employed. Most commercial