# Formulas for Stress and Strain

826 \[APP. B\]

*stress* is a single normal stress value, which is equivalent to an actual combined state of stress.

**Yield point:** The stress at which the strain increases without an increase in stress. For some purposes, it is important to distinguish between *upper* and *lower* yield points. When they occur, the upper yield point is reached first and is a maxima that is followed by the lower yield point, a minima. Only a few materials exhibit a true yield point. For other materials the term is sometimes used synonymously with yield strength. (Compare *Yield strength; Elastic limit; Apparent elastic limit; Proportional limit.* See Ref. 7.)

**Yield strength:** The stress at which a material exhibits a specified permanent deformation or set. This stress is usually determined by the offset method, where the strain departs from the linear portion of the actual stress–strain diagram by an offset unit strain of 0.002. (See Ref. 7.)

## REFERENCES

1. Soderberg, C. R.: Working Stresses, *ASME Paper A-106, J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 2, no. 3, 1935.
2. Unit Stress in Structural Materials (Symposium), *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 91, p. 388, 1927.
3. Johnson, R. C.: Predicting Part Failures, *Mach. Des.*, vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 137–142, 1965; no. 2, pp. 157–162, 1965.
4. von Heydenkamph, G. S.: Damping Capacity of Materials, *Proc. ASTM*, vol. 21, part II, p. 157, 1931.
5. Kuhn, P.: Remarks on the Elastic Axis of Shell Wings, *Nat. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 562, 1936.
6. Schwalbe, W. L.: The Center of Torsion for Angle and Channel Sections, *Trans. ASME, Paper APM-54-11*, vol. 54, no. 1, 1932.
7. Tentative Definitions of Terms Relating to Methods of Testing, *Proc. ASTM*, vol. 35, part I, p. 1315, 1935.
8. Morley, S.: “Strength of Materials,” 5th ed., Longmans, Green, 1919.
9. Timoshenko, S.: “Theory of Elasticity,” 3rd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1970.
10. Griffith, A. A., and G. I. Taylor: The Problems of Flexure and Its Solution by the Soap Film Method, *Tech Rep. Adv. Comm. Aeron.* (British), *Reports and Memoranda* no. 399, p. 950, 1917.
11. Airworthiness Requirements for Aircraft, *Aeron. Bull.* 7-A, U.S. Dept. of Commerce, 1934.
12. Budynas, R. G.: “Advanced Strength and Applied Stress Analysis,” WCB/McGraw-Hill, 1999.
13. Nadai, A.: “Plasticity,” McGraw-Hill, 1931.
14. Freudenthal, A. M.: “The Inelastic Behavior of Engineering Materials and Structures,” John Wiley & Sons, 1950.