strength. One theory that has had considerable acceptance is the *linear damage law* (Miner in Ref. 27); here the assumption is made that the damage produced by repeated stressing at any level is directly proportional to the number of cycles. Thus, if the number of cycles producing failure (100% damage) at a stress range $\sigma_1$ is $N_1$, then the proportional damage produced by $N$ cycles of the stress is $N/N_1$ and stressing at various stress levels for various numbers of cycles causes cumulative damage equal to the summation of such fractional values. Failure occurs, therefore, when $\sum N/N_1 = 1$. The formula implies that the effect of a given number of cycles is the same, whether they are applied continuously or intermittently, and does not take into account the fact that for some metals understressing (stressing below the endurance limit) raises the endurance limit. The linear damage law is not reliable for all stress conditions, and various modifications have been proposed, such as replacing 1 in the formula by a quantity $x$ whose numerical value, either more or less than unity, must be determined experimentally. Attempts have been made to develop a better theory (e.g., Corten and Dolan, Freudenthal and Gumbel, in Ref. 32). Though all the several theories are of value when used knowledgeably, it does not appear that as yet any generally reliable method is available for predicting the life of a stressed part under variable or random loading. (See Refs. 19 and 39.) See Refs. 44 and 45 for a more detailed discussion.

A modification of the foil strain gage called an *S–N fatigue life gage* (Refs. 33 and 34) measures accumulated plastic deformation in the form of a permanent change in resistance. A given total change in resistance can be correlated with the damage necessary to cause a fatigue failure in a given material.

## 3.9 Brittle Fracture

*Brittle fracture* is a term applied to an unexpected brittle failure of a material such as low-carbon steel where large plastic strains are usually noted before actual separation of the part. Major studies of brittle fracture started when failures such as those of welded ships operating in cold seas led to a search for the effect of temperature on the mode of failure. For a brittle fracture to take place the material must be subjected to a tensile stress at a location where a crack or other very sharp notch or defect is present and the temperature must be lower than the so-called *transition temperature*. To determine a transition temperature for a given material, a series of notched specimens is tested under impact loading, each at a different temperature, and the ductility or the energy required to cause fracture is noted. There will be a limited range of temperatures over which the ductility or fracture energy will drop significantly. Careful examination of the