SEC. 13.7] Shells of Revolution; Pressure Vessels; Pipes 591

4. The maximum value of $P$ the pipe can sustain is about 2.25 times the value that will produce a maximum stress equal to the yield point of the pipe material, according to the formula given above.

5. The comments in conclusion 3 above are based on the results of tests performed on very thin-walled pipe. Evces and O’Brien in Ref. 73 describe similar tests on thicker-walled ductile-iron pipe for which $R/t$ does not normally exceed 50. They found that optimum saddle angles lie in the range $90^\circ > \beta > 120^\circ$ and that for $R/t \geq 28$ the formulas for $\sigma_{\max}$ can be used if the value of $k$ is given by

$$
k = 0.03 - 0.00017(\beta - 90)
$$

The maximum stress will be located within $\pm 15^\circ$ of the tip if the pipe fits the saddle well.

6. For a pipe supported in flexible slings instead of on rigid saddles, the maximum local stresses occur at the points of tangency of sling and pipe section; in general, they are less than the corresponding stresses in the saddle-supported pipe but are of the same order of magnitude.

A different but closely related support system for horizontal cylindrical tanks consists of a pair of longitudinal line loads running the full length of the vessel. If the tank wall is thin, accounting for the deformations, which are normally ignored in standard stress formulas, it shows that the stresses are significantly lower. Cook in Ref. 79 uses a nonlinear analysis to account for deformations and reports results for various positions of the supports, radius/thickness ratios, and depths of fill in the tank.