# Formulas for Stress and Strain

of $\tau$ is obtained, which is called the *modulus of rupture in torsion* and which for convenience will be denoted here by $\tau'$. For solid bars of steel, $\tau'$ slightly exceeds the ultimate tensile strength when the length is only about twice the diameter but drops to about 80% of the tensile strength when the length becomes 25 times the diameter. For solid bars of aluminum, $\tau'$ is about 90% of the tensile strength.

For tubes, the modulus of rupture decreases with the ratio of diameter $D$ to wall thickness $t$. Younger (Ref. 7) gives the following approximate formula, applicable to tubes of steel and aluminum:

$$
\tau' = \frac{1600\tau'_0}{(D/t - 2)^2 + 1600}
$$

where $\tau'$ is the modulus of rupture in torsion of the tube and $\tau'_0$ is the modulus of rupture in torsion of a solid circular bar of the same material. (Curves giving $\tau'$ as a function of $D/t$ for various steels and light alloys may be found in Ref. 18.)

## 10.6 Torsion of Curved Bars; Helical Springs

The formulas of Secs. 10.1 and 10.2 can be applied to slightly curved bars without significant error, but for sharply curved bars, such as helical springs, account must be taken of the influence of curvature and slope. Among others, Wahl (Ref. 8) and Ancker and Goodier (Ref. 24) have discussed this problem, and the former presents charts which greatly facilitate the calculation of stress and deflection for springs of non-circular section. Of the following formulas cited, those for round wire were taken from Ref. 24, and those for square and rectangular wire from Ref. 8 (with some changes of notation).

Let $R =$ radius of coil measured from spring axis to center of section (Fig. 10.6), $d =$ diameter of circular section, $2b =$ thickness of square section, $P =$ load (either tensile or compressive), $n =$ number of active turns in spring, $\alpha =$ pitch angle of spring, $f =$ total stretch or shortening of spring, and $\tau =$ maximum shear stress produced. Then for a spring of *circular* wire,

$$
f = \frac{64PR^3n}{Gd^4} \left[ 1 - \frac{3}{64}\left(\frac{d}{R}\right)^2 + \frac{3+\nu}{2(1+\nu)}(\tan \alpha)^2 \right]
\tag{10.6-1}
$$

$$
\tau = \frac{16PR}{\pi d^3} \left[ 1 + \frac{5}{8}\frac{d}{R} + \frac{7}{32}\left(\frac{d}{R}\right)^2 \right]
\tag{10.6-2}
$$