# Appendix B

## Glossary: Definitions

The definitions given here apply to the terminology used throughout this book. Some of the terms may be defined differently by other authors; when this is the case, alternative terminology is noted. When two or more terms with identical or similar meaning are in general acceptance, they are given in the order of preference of the current writers.

**Allowable stress (working stress):** If a member is so designed that the maximum stress as calculated for the expected conditions of service is less than some limiting value, the member will have a proper margin of security against damage or failure. This limiting value is the allowable stress subject to the material and condition of service in question. The allowable stress is made less than the damaging stress because of uncertainty as to the conditions of service, nonuniformity of material, and inaccuracy of the stress analysis (see Ref. 1). The margin between the allowable stress and the damaging stress may be reduced in proportion to the certainty with which the conditions of the service are known, the intrinsic reliability of the material, the accuracy with which the stress produced by the loading can be calculated, and the degree to which failure is unattended by danger or loss. (Compare with *Damaging stress; Factor of safety; Factor of utilization; Margin of safety.* See Refs. 1–3.)

**Apparent elastic limit (useful limit point):** The stress at which the rate of change of strain with respect to stress is 50% greater than at zero stress. It is more definitely determinable from the stress-strain diagram than is the proportional limit, and is useful for comparing materials of the same general class. (Compare with *Elastic limit; Proportional limit; Yield point, Yield strength.*)

**Apparent stress:** The stress corresponding to a given unit strain on the assumption of uniaxial elastic stress. It is calculated by multi-

813