A composite member of this kind can be *prestressed*. $P_1$, $P_2$, etc., then represent the *increments* of force in each member due to the applied load, and can be found by Eqs. (7.3-1) and (7.3-2), provided all bars can sustain reversal of stress, or provided the applied load is not great enough to cause such reversal in any bar which cannot sustain it. As explained in Sec. 3.12, by proper prestressing, all parts of a composite member can be made to reach their allowable loads, elastic limits, or ultimate strengths simultaneously (Example 2).

## EXAMPLES

**1.** A ring is suspended by three vertical bars, $A$, $B$, and $C$ of unequal lengths. The upper ends of the bars are held at different levels, so that assembled none of the bars is stressed. $A$ is 4 ft long, has a section area of 0.3 in.$^2$, and is of steel for which $E = 30{,}000{,}000$ lb/in.$^2$; $B$ is 3 ft long and has a section area of 0.2 in$^2$, and is of copper for which $E = 17{,}000{,}000$ lb/in$^2$; $C$ is 2 ft long, has a section area of 0.4 in$^2$, and is of aluminum for which $E = 10{,}000{,}000$ lb/in$^2$. A load of 10,000 lb is hung on the ring. It is required to determine how much of this load is carried by each bar.

**Solution.** Denoting by $P_A$, $P_B$, and $P_C$ the loads carried by $A$, $B$, and $C$, respectively, and expressing the moduli of elasticity in millions of pounds per square inch and the lengths in feet, we substitute in Eq. (7.3-1) and find

$$
P_A = 10{,}000 \left[\frac{\dfrac{(0.3)(30)}{4}}{\dfrac{(0.3)(30)}{4} + \dfrac{(0.2)(17)}{3} + \dfrac{(0.4)(10)}{2}}\right] = 4180 \text{ lb}
$$

Similarly

$$
P_B = 2100 \text{ lb} \quad \text{and} \quad P_C = 3720 \text{ lb}
$$

**2.** A composite member is formed by passing a steel rod through an aluminum tube of the same length and fastening the two parts together at both ends. The fastening is accomplished by adjustable nuts, which make it possible to assemble the rod and tube so that one is under initial tension and the other is under an equal initial compression. For the steel rod the section area is 1.5 in$^2$, the modulus of elasticity 30,000,000 lb/in$^2$ and the allowable stress 15,000 lb/in$^2$. For the aluminum tube the section area is 2 in$^2$, the modulus of elasticity 10,000,000 lb/in$^2$ and the allowable stress 10,000 lb/in$^2$. It is desired to prestress the composite member so that under a tensile load both parts will reach their allowable stresses simultaneously.

**Solution.** When the allowable stresses are reached, the force in the steel rod will be $1.5(15{,}000) = 22{,}500$ lb, the force in the aluminum tube will be $2(10{,}000) = 20{,}000$ lb, and the total load on the member will be $22{,}500 + 20{,}000 = 42{,}500$ lb. Let $P_i$ denote the initial tension or compression in the members, and, as before, let tension be considered positive and compression negative. Then, since Eq. (7.3-1) gives the *increment* in force,