# Formulas for Stress and Strain

verse bending stresses equal to Poisson's ratio times the longitudinal bending stresses are present. For rectangular beams of moderate width, Ashwell (Ref. 10) shows that the stiffness depends not only upon the ratio of depth to width of the beam but also upon the radius of curvature to which the beam is bent. For a rectangular beam of width $b$ and depth $h$ bent to a radius of curvature $\rho$ by a bending moment $M$, these variables are related by the expression $1/\rho = M/KEI$, where $I = bh^3/12$, and the following table of values for $K$ is given for several values of Poisson's ratio and for the quantity $b^2/\rho h$.

| Value of $\nu$ | 0.25 | 1.00 | 4.00 | 16.0 | 50.0 | 200. | 800. |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| 0.1000 | 1.0000 | 1.0003 | 1.0033 | 1.0073 | 1.0085 | 1.0093 | 1.0097 |
| 0.2000 | 1.0001 | 1.0013 | 1.0135 | 1.0300 | 1.0349 | 1.0383 | 1.0400 |
| 0.3000 | 1.0002 | 1.0029 | 1.0311 | 1.0710 | 1.0826 | 1.0907 | 1.0948 |
| 0.3333 | 1.0002 | 1.0036 | 1.0387 | 1.0895 | 1.1042 | 1.1146 | 1.1198 |
| 0.4000 | 1.0003 | 1.0052 | 1.0569 | 1.1357 | 1.1584 | 1.1744 | 1.1825 |
| 0.5000 | 1.0005 | 1.0081 | 1.0923 | 1.2351 | 1.2755 | 1.3045 | 1.3189 |

In very short wide beams, such as the concrete slabs used as highway-bridge flooring, the deflection and fiber-stress distribution cannot be regarded as uniform across the width. In calculating the strength of such a slab, it is convenient to make use of the concept of *effective width*, i.e., the width of a spanwise strip which, acting as a beam with uniform extreme fiber stress equal to the maximum stress in the slab, develops the same resisting moment as does the slab. The effective width depends on the manner of support, manner of loading, and ratio of breadth to span $b/a$. It has been determined by Holl (Ref. 22) for a number of assumed conditions, and the results are given in the following table for a slab that is freely supported at each of two opposite edges (Fig. 8.17). Two kinds of loading are considered, viz. uniform load over the entire slab and load uniformly distributed over a central circular area of radius $c$. The ratio of the effective width $e$ to the span $a$ is given for each of a number of ratios of $c$ to slab thickness $h$ and each of a number of $b/a$ values.

| Loading | $b/a = 1$ | $b/a = 1.2$ | $b/a = 1.6$ | $b/a = 2$ | $b/a = \infty$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Uniform | 0.960 | 1.145 | 1.519 | 1.900 |  |
| Central, $c = 0$ | 0.568 | 0.599 | 0.633 | 0.648 | 0.656 |
| Central, $c = 0.125h$ | 0.581 | 0.614 | 0.649 | 0.665 | 0.673 |
| Central, $c = 0.250h$ | 0.599 | 0.634 | 0.672 | 0.689 | 0.697 |
| Central, $c = 0.500h$ | 0.652 | 0.694 | 0.740 | 0.761 | 0.770 |