# Formulas for Stress and Strain

**818**  
**[APP. B]**

**Flexure equation:** The equation for tensile and compressive stresses in beams undergoing bending, given by $\sigma = Mc/I$.

**Flexural rigidity** (beam, plate): A measure of the resistance of the bending deformation of a beam or plate. For a beam, the flexural rigidity is given by $EI$; whereas for a plate of thickness $t$, it is given by $Et^3/[12(1 - \nu)]$.

**Form factor:** The term is applied to several situations pertaining to beams:

(1) Given a beam section of a given shape, the form factor is the ratio of the modulus of rupture of a beam having that particular section to the modulus of rupture of a beam otherwise similar but having a section adopted as a standard. This standard section is usually taken as rectangular or square; for wood it is a 2 in by 2 in square with edges horizontal and vertical (see Secs. 3.11 and 8.15).

(2) For the shear deflection of a beam due to transverse loading, the form factor is a correction factor that is the ratio of the actual shear deflection to the shear deflection calculated on the assumption of a uniform shear stress across the section (see Sec. 8.10).

(3) For a given maximum fiber stress within the elastic limit, the form factor is the ratio of the actual resisting moment of a wide-flanged beam to the resisting moment the beam would develop if the fiber stress were uniformly distributed across the entire width of the flanges. So used, the term expresses the strength-reducing effort of shear lag.

**Fretting fatigue (chafing fatigue):** Fatigue aggravated by surface rubbing, as in shafts with press-fitted collars.

**Guided:** A support condition at the end of a beam or column or at the edge of a plate or shell that prevents *rotation* of the edge of the neutral surface in the plane of bending but permits *longitudinal and transverse displacement.* (Compare with *Fixed; Held; Simply-supported.*)

**Held:** A support condition at the end of a beam or column or at the edge of a plate or shell that prevents *longitudinal and transverse displacement* of the edge of the neutral surface but permits *rotation* in the plane of bending. (Compare with *Fixed; Guided; Simply-supported.*)

**Hertzian Stress (contact stress):** Stress caused by the pressure between elastic bodies in contact.

**Hysteresis:** The dissipation of energy as heat during a stress cycle of a member.