# Formulas for Stress and Strain

154 \[CHAP. 8

$M$ causes tension at the point in question and the minus sign if $M$ causes compression.)

It is the determination of $M$ that offers difficulty. For some cases, especially if $P$ is small or tensile, it is permissible to ignore the small additional moment caused by $P$ and to take $M$ equal to $M'$, the bending moment due to transverse loads only. Approximate formulas of the type (Ref. 33)

$$
y_{\max}=\frac{y'_{\max}}{1 \pm \alpha_y P^2/EI}, \qquad
\theta_{\max}=\frac{\theta'_{\max}}{1 \pm \alpha_0 P^2/EI}
$$

$$
M_{\max}=\frac{M'_{\max}}{1 \pm \alpha_M P^2/EI}
\qquad\qquad (8.7\text{-}2)
$$

have been used, but the values of $\alpha_y$, $\alpha_0$, and $\alpha_M$ are different for each loading and each manner of supporting the beam.

Instead of tabulating the values of $\alpha$, which give answers with increasing error as $P$ increases, Tables 8.7$(a$–$d)$ gives values of the coefficient $C_P$ which can be used in the expressions

$$
y_A=C_P y'_A,\qquad \theta_A=C_P \theta'_A,\qquad M_A=C_P M'_A,\qquad \text{etc.}
\qquad (8.7\text{-}3)
$$

where the primed values refer to the laterally loaded beam without the axial load and can be evaluated from expressions found in Table 8.1. For those cases listed where the reactions are statically indeterminate, the reaction coefficients given will enable the remaining reactions to be evaluated by applying the principles of static equilibrium. The given values of $C_P$ are exact, based on the assumption that deflections due to transverse shear are negligible. This same assumption was used in developing the equations for transverse shear, bending moment, slope, and deflection shown in Tables 8.8 and 8.9.

Table 8.8 lists the general equations just mentioned as well as boundary values and selected maximum values for the case of axial compressive loading plus transverse loading. Since, in general, axial tension is a less critical condition, where deflections, slopes, and moments are usually reduced by the axial load, Table 8.9 is much more compact and gives only the general equations and the left-end boundary values.

Although the principle of superposition does not apply to the problem considered here, this modification of the principle can be used: The moment (or deflection) for a combination of transverse loads can be found by adding the moments (or deflections) for each transverse load combined with the entire axial load. Thus a beam supported at the ends and subjected to a uniform load, a center load, and an axial compression would have a maximum bending moment (or deflection) given by the sum of the maximum moments (or deflections) for Table