SEC. 8.8] Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars 163

The second category of determining deflections, where the cross section varies in steps from one uniform section to another, can be solved in several ways. Equation (8.1-5) can be integrated, matching slopes and deflections at the transition sections, or Eq. (8.1-6) can be integrated over the separate portions and summed to obtain the desired deflections. A third method utilizes the advantages of the step function and its application to beam deflections as given in Table 8.1. In a given portion of the span where the cross section is uniform it is apparent that the shape of the elastic curve will remain the same if the internal bending moments and the moments of inertia are increased or decreased in proportion. By this means, a modified moment diagram can be constructed which could be applied to a beam with a single constant cross section and thereby produce an elastic curve identical to the one produced by the actual moments and the several moments of inertia present in the actual span. It is also apparent that this modified moment diagram could be produced by adding appropriate loads to the beam. (See Refs. 29 and 65.) In summary, then, a new loading is constructed which will produce the required elastic curve, and the solution for this loading is carried out by using the formulas in Table 8.1. This procedure will be illustrated by the following example.

# EXAMPLE

The beam shown in Fig. 8.13 has a constant depth of 4 in and a step increase in the width from 2 to 5 in at a point 5 ft from the left end. The left end is simply supported, and the right end is fixed; the loading is a uniform 200 lb/ft from $x = 3$ ft to the right end. Find the value of the reaction at the left end and the maximum stress.

**Solution.** For the left 5 ft, $I_1 = 2(4^3)/12 = 10.67\ \text{in}^4$. For the right 5 ft, $I_2 = 5(4^3)/12 = 26.67\ \text{in}^4$, or 2.5 times $I_1$.

The same $M/I$ diagram shown in Fig. 8.13(e) can be produced by the loading shown in Fig. 8.14 acting upon a beam having a constant moment of inertia $I_2$. Note that all loads on the left portion simply have been increased by a factor of 2.5, while added loads at the 5-ft position reduce the effects of these added loads to those previously present on the right portion.

To find the left-end reaction for the beam loaded as shown in Fig. 7.14(a), use Table 8.1, case 1c, where $W = 1.5R_1 - 600$ and $a = 5$; case 2c, where $w_a = w_l = 500\ \text{lb/ft}$ and $a = 3$ ft; case 2c, again, where $w_a = w_l = -300\ \text{lb/ft}$ and $a = 5$ ft; and finally case 3c, where $M_o = -(7.5R_1 - 600)$ and $a = 5$ ft. Summing the expressions for $R_A$ from these cases in the order above, we obtain

$$
R_A = 2.5R_1
= \frac{(1.5R_1 - 600)(10 - 5)^2}{2(10^3)}[2(10) + 5]
+ \frac{500(10 - 3)^3}{8(10^3)}[3(10) + 3]
$$

$$
\qquad + \frac{(-300)(10 - 5)^3}{8(10^3)}[3(10) + 5]
- \frac{3[-(7.5R_1 - 600)]}{2(10^3)}(10^2 - 5^2)
$$

which gives $R_1 = 244$ lb.