688  Formulas for Stress and Strain  [CHAP. 13

56. Seide, Paul: The Effect of Pressure on the Bending Characteristics of an Actuator System, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 27, no. 3, 1960.  
57. Chou, Seh-leh, and M. W. Johnson, Jr.: On the Finite Deformation of an Elastic Toroidal Membrane, *Proc. 10th Midwestern Mech. Conf.*, 1967.  
58. Tsui, E. Y. W.: Analysis of Tapered Conical Shells, *Proc. 4th U.S. Natl. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, 1962.  
59. Fischer, L.: “Theory and Practice of Shell Structures,” Wilhelm Ernst, 1968.  
60. Pao, Yen-Ching: Influence Coefficients of Short Circular Cylindrical Shells with Varying Wall Thickness, *AIAA J.*, vol. 6, no. 8, 1968.  
61. Turner, C. E.: Study of the Symmetrical Elastic Loading of Some Shells of Revolution, with Special Reference to Toroidal Elements, *J. Mech. Eng. Sci.*, vol. 1, no. 2, 1959.  
62. Perrone, N.: Compendium of Structural Mechanics Computer Programs, *Computers and Structures*, vol. 2, no. 3, April 1972. (Also available as *NTIS Paper N71-32026*, April 1971.)  
63. Bushnell, D.: Stress, Stability, and Vibration of Complex, Branched Shells of Revolution, *AIAA/ASME/SAE 14th Structures, Struct. Dynam. & Mater. Conf.*, Williamsburg, Va., March 1973.  
64. Baltrukonis, J. H.: Influence Coefficients for Edge-Loaded Short, Thin, Conical Frustums, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 26, no. 2, 1959.  
65. Taylor, C. E.: Simplification of the Analysis of Stress in Conical Shells, *Univ. Ill., TAM Rept. 385*, April 1974.  
66. Cook, R. D., and W. C. Young: “Advanced Mechanics of Materials,” 2nd ed., Prentice-Hall, 1998.  
67. Galletly, G. D.: A Simple Design Equation for Preventing Buckling in Fabricated Torispherical Shells under Internal Pressure, *Trans. ASME, J. Pressure Vessel Tech.*, vol. 108, no. 4, 1986.  
68. Ranjan, G. V., and C. R. Steele: Analysis of Torispherical Pressure Vessels, *ASCE J. Eng. Mech. Div.*, vol. 102, no. EM4, 1976.  
69. Forman, B. F.: “Local Stresses in Pressure Vessels,” 2nd ed., Pressure Vessel Handbook Publishing, 1979.  
70. Dodge, W. C.: Secondary Stress Indices for Integral Structural Attachments to Straight Pipe, *Weld. Res. Counc. Bull. No. 198*, September 1974.  
71. Rodabaugh, E. C., W. G. Dodge, and S. E. Moore: Stress Indices at Lug Supports on Piping Systems, *Weld. Res. Counc. Bull. No. 198*, September 1974.  
72. Kitching, R., and B. Olsen, Pressure Stresses at Discrete Supports on Spherical Shells, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 2, no. 4, 1967.  
73. Evces, C. R., and J. M. O’Brien: Stresses in Saddle-Supported Ductile-Iron Pipe, *J. Am. Water Works Assoc., Res. Tech.*, vol. 76, no. 11, 1984.  
74. Harvey, J. F.: “Theory and Design of Pressure Vessels,” Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1985.  
75. Bednar, H. H.: “Pressure Vessel Design Handbook,” 2nd ed., Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1986.  
76. Calladine, C. R.: “Theory of Shell Structures,” Cambridge University Press, 1983.  
77. Stanley, P., and T. D. Campbell: Very Thin Torispherical Pressure Vessel Ends under Internal Pressure: Strains, Deformations, and Buckling Behaviour, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 16, no. 3, 1981.  
78. Kishida, M., and H. Ozawa: Three-Dimensional Axisymmetric Elastic Stresses in Pressure Vessels with Torispherical Drumheads (Comparison of Elasticity, Photoelasticity, and Shell Theory Solutions), *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 20, no. 3, 1985.  
79. Cook, R. D.: Behavior of Cylindrical Tanks Whose Axes are Horizontal, *Int. J. Thin-Walled Struct.*, vol. 3, no. 4, 1985.  
80. Cheng, S., and T. Angsirikul: Three-Dimensional Elasticity Solution and Edge Effects in a Spherical Dome, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 44, no. 4, 1977.  
81. Holland, M., M. J. Lalor, and J. Walsh: Principal Displacements in a Pressurized Elliptic Cylinder: Theoretical Predictions with Experimental Verification by Laser Interferometry, *Inst. Mech. Eng. J. Strain Anal.*, vol. 9, no. 3, 1974.  
82. White, R. N., and C. G. Salmon (eds.): “Building Structural Design Handbook,” John Wiley & Sons, 1987.