# Formulas for Stress and Strain

Extreme care must be exercised when installing a gage, since a good bond and an electrically insulated gage are necessary. The installation procedures can be obtained from technical instruction bulletins supplied by the manufacturer. Once a gage is correctly mounted, wired, resistance tested for continuity and insulation from the test structure, and waterproofed (if appropriate), it is ready for instrumentation and testing.

## Strain Gage Configurations.

In both wire or foil gages, many configurations and sizes are available. Strain gages come in many forms for transducer or stress-analysis applications. The fundamental configurations for stress-analysis work are shown in Fig. 6.2.

A strain gage is mounted on a free surface, which in general, is in a state of plane stress where the state of stress with regards to a specific $xy$ rectangular coordinate system can be unknown up to the three stresses, $\sigma_x$, $\sigma_y$, and $\tau_{xy}$. Thus, if the state of stress is completely unknown on a free surface, it is necessary to use a three-element rectangular or delta rosette, since each gage element provides only one piece of information, the indicated normal strain at the point in the direction of the gage.

To understand how the rosettes are used, consider the three-element rectangular rosette shown in Fig. 6.3(a), which provides normal strain components in three directions spaced at angles of $45^\circ$.

If an $xy$ coordinate system is assumed to coincide with gages $A$ and $C$, then $\varepsilon_x = \varepsilon_A$ and $\varepsilon_y = \varepsilon_C$. Gage $B$ in conjunction with gages $A$ and $C$ provides information necessary to determine $\gamma_{xy}$. Recalling the first of Eqs. (2.4-1), $\varepsilon_{x'} = \varepsilon_x \cos^2 \theta + \varepsilon_y \sin^2 \theta + \gamma_{xy} \cos \theta \sin \theta$, with $\theta = 45^\circ$

$$
\varepsilon_B = \varepsilon_x \cos^2 45^\circ + \varepsilon_y \sin^2 45^\circ + \gamma_{xy} \cos 45^\circ \sin 45^\circ
$$

$$
= \frac{1}{2}(\varepsilon_x + \varepsilon_y + \gamma_{xy}) = \frac{1}{2}(\varepsilon_A + \varepsilon_C + \gamma_{xy})
$$

Solving for $\gamma_{xy}$ yields

$$
\gamma_{xy} = 2\varepsilon_B - \varepsilon_A - \varepsilon_C
$$

Once $\varepsilon_x$, $\varepsilon_y$, and $\gamma_{xy}$ are known, Hooke's law [Eqs. (2.2-5) and (2.2-6$a$)] can be used to determine the stresses $\sigma_x$, $\sigma_y$, and $\tau_{xy}$.