302 # Formulas for Stress and Strain [CHAP. 9]

To obtain the deflection under the 1000-lb load in the original problem, first we must find the deflection at the position of the load of 666.7 lb in Fig. 9.13(b). At $x = 60^\circ$,

$$
y_x = 0 + 0 + \frac{1.815(10^6)(100)}{10(10^6)2.609}(1 - \cos 60^\circ) + \frac{38{,}490(100^2)}{10(10^6)(2.609)}F_1
$$

$$
+ 0 + \frac{-500(100^3)}{10(10^6)(2.609)}F_3
$$

where

$$
F_1 = \frac{1 + 1.3}{2}\frac{\pi}{3}\sin 60^\circ - 1.3(1 - \cos 60^\circ) = 0.3029
$$

and $F_3 = 0.1583$

Therefore,

$$
y_{60} = 3.478 + 5.796 - 3.033 = 6.24\text{ in}
$$

If the entire ring were now rotated as a rigid body about point $B$ in order to lower points $C$ and $D$ by 6.24 in, point $A$ would be lowered a distance of $6.24(2)/(1 + \cos 60^\circ) = 8.32$ in, which is the downward deflection of the 1000-lb load.

The use of a fictitious support, as was done in this problem at point $A$, is generalized for asymmetric loadings, both in-plane and out-of-plane, by Barber in Ref. 35.

## Flanged sections.

The formulas in Table 9.4 for flangeless or compact sections apply also to flanged sections when the ends are fixed as to slope only or when fixed as to slope and roll but not as to flange bending and if the loads are distributed or applied only at the ends. If the flanges are fixed or if concentrated loads are applied within the span, the additional torsional stiffness contributed by the bending resistance of the flanges *[warping restraint* (see Sec. 10.3)] may appreciably affect the value and distribution of twisting and bending moments. The flange stresses caused by the secondary bending or warping may exceed the primary bending stresses. References 15 to 17 and 22 show methods of solution and give some numerical solutions for simple concentrated loads on curved I-beams with both ends fixed completely. Brookhart (Ref. 22) also includes results for additional boundary conditions and uniformly distributed loads. Results are compared with cases where the warping restraint was not considered.

Dabrowski (Ref. 23) gives a thorough presentation of the theory of curved thin-walled beams and works out many examples including multispan beams and beams with open cross sections, closed cross sections, and cross sections which contain both open and closed elements; an extensive bibliography is included. Vlasov (Ref. 27) also gives a very thorough derivation and discusses, among many other topics, vibrations, stability, laterally braced beams of open cross