710  **Formulas for Stress and Strain**  [CHAP. 15]

impetus to the theoretical and experimental investigation of elastic stability and to the use of parts for which it is a governing design consideration.

There are certain definite advantages in lightweight construction, in which stability determines strength. One is that since elastic buckling may occur without damage, part of a structure—such as the skin of an airplane wing or web of a deep beam—may be used safely at loads that cause local buckling, and under these circumstances the resistance afforded by the buckled part is definitely known. Furthermore, members such as Euler columns may be loaded experimentally to their maximum capacity without damage or permanent deformation and subsequently incorporated in a structure.

## 15.2 Buckling of Bars

In Table 15.1, formulas are given for the critical loads on columns, beams, and shafts. In general, the theoretical values are in good agreement with test results as long as the assumed conditions are reasonably well-satisfied. It is to be noted that even slight changes in the amount of end constraint have a marked effect on the critical loads, and therefore it is important that such constraint be closely estimated. Slight irregularities in form and small accidental eccentricities are less likely to be important in the case of columns than in the case of thin plates. For latticed columns or columns with tie plates, a reduced value of $E$ may be used, calculated as shown in Sec. 12.3. Formulas for the elastic buckling of bars may be applied to conditions under which proportional limit is exceeded if a reduced value of $E$ corresponding to the actual stress is used (Ref. 1), but the procedure requires a stress-strain diagram for the material and, in general, is not practical.

In Table 15.1, cases 1–3, the tabulated buckling coefficients are worked out for various combinations of concentrated and distributed axial loads. Tensile end loads are included so that the effect of axial end restraint under axial loading within the column length can be considered (see the example at the end of this section). Carter and Gere (Ref. 46) present graphs of buckling coefficients for columns with single tapers for various end conditions, cross sections, and degrees of taper. Culver and Preg (Ref. 47) investigate and tabulate buckling coefficients for singly tapered beam-columns in which the effect of torsion, including warping restraint, is considered for the case where the loading is by end moments in the stiffer principal plane.

Kitipornchai and Trahair describe (Ref. 55) the lateral stability of singly tapered cantilever and doubly tapered simple I-beams, including the effect of warping restraint; experimental results are favorably compared with numerical solutions. Morrison (Ref. 57) considers the