# Formulas for Stress and Strain

loading is somewhat less than twice that which results from static loading. Love (Ref. 6) shows that if $\mu$ (the ratio of the mass of the load to that of the bar) is 1, sudden loading causes 1.63 times as much stress as static loading; for $\mu = 2$, the ratio is 1.68; for $\mu = 4$, it is 1.84; and it approaches 2 as a limit as $\mu$ increases. It can be seen that the ordinary assumption that sudden loading causes twice as much stress and deflection as static loading is always a safe one to make.

## Moving load on beam.

If a constant force moves at uniform speed across a beam with simply supported ends, the maximum deflection produced exceeds the static deflection that the same force would produce. If $v$ represents the velocity of the force, $l$ the span, and $\omega$ the lowest natural vibration frequency of the (unloaded) beam, then theoretically the maximum value of the ratio of dynamic to static deflection is 1.74; it occurs for $v = \omega l/1.64\pi$ and at the instant when the force has progressed at a distance $0.757l$ along the span (Refs. 15 and 16).

If a constant mass $W$ moves across a simple beam of relatively negligible mass, then the maximum ratio of dynamic to static deflection is $[1 + (v^2/g)(Wl/3EI)]$ (see Ref. 30). (Note that consistent units must be used in the preceding equations.)

## Vibration.

A very important type of dynamic loading occurs when an elastic body vibrates under the influence of a periodic impulse. This occurs whenever a rotating or reciprocating mass is unbalanced and also under certain conditions of fluid flow. The most serious situation arises when the impulse synchronizes (or nearly synchronizes) with the natural period of vibration, and it is of the utmost importance to guard against this condition of resonance (or near resonance). There is always some resistance to vibration, whether natural or introduced; this is called *damping* and tends to prevent vibrations of excessive amplitude. In the absence of effective damping, the amplitude $y$ for near-resonance vibration will much exceed the deflection $y_s$ that would be produced by the same force under static conditions. The ratio $y/y_s$, called the *relative amplification factor*, in the absence of damping, is $1/[1 - (f/f_n)^2]$, where $f$ is the frequency of the forcing impulse and $f_n$ is the natural frequency of the elastic system. Obviously, it is necessary to know at least approximately the natural period of vibration of a member in order to guard against resonance.

Thomson and Dahleh (Ref. 19) describes in detail analytical and numerical techniques for determining resonant frequencies for systems with single and multiple degrees of freedom; they also describe methods and gives numerous examples for torsional and lateral vibrations of rods and beams. Huang (Ref. 22) has tabulated