APP. C]

Composite Materials 837

# C.3 Laminated Composite Structures

Classical Laminate Plate Theory describes the behavior of laminated plate elements under in-plane and bending loads. The solution applies only to plate elements that are in load equilibrium — it does not account for the geometry of the plate or the boundary conditions.

In general, analytical solutions for composite structures are much more difficult to derive than for isotropic structures. Solutions for beams (Refs. 2 and 3), plates (Refs. 2 and 4), and shells (Ref. 2) can be found if the loads, geometry and boundary conditions remain simple. Beam solutions are the simplest and are illustrated in the two examples below.

## Bending of Composite Beams

If a composite plate meets the geometric definition of a beam, namely that the width and height are much smaller than the length, then the assumptions of standard beam theory can be used. An equivalent modulus $E^{*}$ is derived for composite beams under pure bending. The equivalent modulus is then used in conjunction with Table 8.1 of Chap. 8 to provide an approximate solution for the bending of laminated rectangular beams. The solution ignores transverse shear deformation, which could be significant, so results should be used for initial sizing only.

In addition to the standard beam theory assumptions, the following requirements also apply:

1. The beam is of rectangular cross-section with width $b$ and height $h$.
2. Plies lie in the $x$–$z$ or 1–2 plane.
3. The shear coupling terms $(\ )_{16}$ and $(\ )_{26}$ of the matrices $[A]$, $[B]$, and $[D]$ are zero.

The equivalent modulus is found by applying the beam theory assumptions to the constitutive equations, Eq. (C.2), which gives a simple expression for the moment resultant $M_x$ in terms of the curvature $\kappa_x$ (Refs. 2 and 3). This expression can then be substituted into the standard beam bending expression, $(EI)\kappa_x = M$ to find

$$
E^{*} = \left( D_{11} - \frac{B_{11}^{2}}{A_{11}} \right)\frac{12}{h^{3}}
$$

(C.9)

If the lay-up is symmetric about the mid-plane, then $B_{11} = 0$, and the equivalent modulus reduces to

$$
E^{*} = D_{11}\frac{12}{h^{3}}
$$

(C.10)