# Formulas for Stress and Strain

**4** \[CHAP. 1

## TABLE 1.1 Units appropriate to structural analysis

| Property | SI unit, symbol (derived units) | USCU unit,$^\dagger$ symbol (derived units) |
|---|---|---|
| Length | meter, m | inch, in |
| Area | square meter (m$^2$) | square inch (in$^2$) |
| Volume | cubic meter (m$^3$) | cubic inch (in$^3$) |
| Second-area moment | (m$^4$) | (in$^4$) |
| Mass | kilogram, kg | (lbf-s$^2$/in) |
| Force | Newton, N (kg-m/s$^2$) | pound, lbf |
| Stress, pressure | Pascal, Pa (N/m$^2$) | psi (lbf/in$^2$) |
| Work, energy | Joule, J (N-m) | (lbf-in) |
| Temperature | Kelvin, K | degrees Fahrenheit, °F |

$^\dagger$In stress analysis, the unit of length used most often is the inch.

ties associated with loading, including energy, work, and power; and stress analysis properties such as deformation, strain, and stress.

Two basic systems of units are employed in the field of stress analysis: SI units and USCU units.$^\dagger$ SI units are mass-based units using the kilogram (kg), meter (m), second (s), and Kelvin (K) or degree Celsius (°C) as the fundamental units of mass, length, time, and temperature, respectively. Other SI units, such as that used for force, the Newton (kg-m/s$^2$), are derived quantities. USCU units are force-based units using the pound force (lbf), inch (in) or foot (ft), second (s), and degree Fahrenheit (°F) as the fundamental units of force, length, time, and temperature, respectively. Other USCU units, such as that used for mass, the slug (lbf-s$^2$/ft) or the nameless lbf-s$^2$/in, are derived quantities. Table 1.1 gives a listing of the primary SI and USCU units used for structural analysis. Certain prefixes may be appropriate, depending on the size of the quantity. Common prefixes are given in Table 1.2. For example, the modulus of elasticity of carbon steel is approximately 207 GPa = $207 \times 10^9$ Pa = $207 \times 10^9$ N/m$^2$. Prefixes are normally used with SI units. However, there are cases where prefixes are also used with USCU units. Some examples are the kpsi (1 kpsi = $10^3$ psi = $10^3$ lbf/in$^2$), kip (1 kip = 1 kilopound = 1000 lbf), and Mpsi (1 Mpsi = $10^6$ psi).

Depending on the application, different units may be specified. It is important that the analyst be aware of all the implications of the units and make consistent use of them. For example, if you are building a model from a CAD file in which the design dimensional units are given in mm, it is unnecessary to change the system of units or to scale the model to units of m. However, if in this example the input forces are in

$^\dagger$SI and USCU are abbreviations for the International System of Units (from the French Système International d’Unités) and the United States Customary Units, respectively.