100 Formulaa for Stress and Strain [CHAP. 6

Substituting this into Eq. (6.2-8), with $(S_g)_i = 2.0$, gives

$$
\epsilon_{\text{actual}} = \left(\frac{2.0}{2.124}\right)[-1800 - (-136.5)] = -1566\,\mu
$$

which is not a minor correction.

## 6.3 Detection of Plastic Yielding

In parts made of ductile metal, sometimes a great deal can be learned concerning the location of the most highly stressed region and the load that produces elastic failure by noting the first signs of plastic yield-ing. Such yielding may be detected in the following ways.

**Observation of slip lines.** If yielding occurs first at some point on the surface, it can be detected by the appearance of slip lines if the surface is suitably polished.

**Brittle coating.** If a member is coated with some material that will flake off easily, this flaking will indicate local yielding of the member. A coating of rosin or a wash of lime or white portland cement, applied and allowed to dry, is best for this purpose, but chalk or mill scale will often suffice. By this method zones of high stress such as those that occur in pressure vessels around openings and projections can be located and the load required to produce local yielding can be deter-mined approximately.

**Photoelastic coatings.** Thin photoelastic coatings show very character-istic patterns analogous to slip lines when the material beneath the coating yields.

## 6.4 Analogies

Certain problems in elasticity involve equations that cannot be solved but that happen to be mathematically identical with the equations that describe some other physical phenomenon which can be investi-gated experimentally. Among the more useful of such analogies are the following.

**Membrane analogy.** This is especially useful in determining the torsion properties of bars having noncircular sections. If in a thin flat plate holes are cut having the outlines of various sections and over each of these holes a soap film (or other membrane) is stretched and