SEC. 10.3] Torsion 389

$b/r = 0.17$, and $a/b = 0.771$. Using these data, one finds that $C = 0.8100$, $B = 0.6262$, and $K = 1.6200$. This gives then for the hollow section $C$,

$$
K_R = 1.6200(3) - \frac{2\pi(1^4)}{2} - \frac{\pi(0.6^4)}{2} = 1.5148
\qquad \text{and} \qquad
T_R = \frac{1.5148G\theta}{L}
$$

Similarly,

$$
\tau_{\max} = \frac{T(0.6262)}{1^3} = \frac{0.6262(1.6200)G\theta}{L} = \frac{1.0144G\theta}{L}
$$

$$
= 1.0144 \frac{T_R}{1.5148} = 0.6697T_R
$$

Again one would expect the maximum shear stress to be somewhat larger with twelve splines than with four and again the stress concentrations in the corners of the splines must be considered.

## 10.3 Effect of End Constraint

It was pointed out in Sec. 10.2 that when noncircular bars are twisted, the sections do not remain plane but warp, and that the formulas of Table 10.1 are based on the assumption that this warping is not prevented. If one or both ends of a bar are so fixed that warping is prevented, or if the torque is applied to a section other than at the ends of a bar, the stresses and the angle of twist produced by the given torque are affected. In compact sections the effect is slight, but in the case of open thin-walled sections the effect may be considerable.

**Behavior.** To visualize the additional support created by warping restraint, consider a very thin rectangular cross section and an I-beam having the same thickness and the same total cross-sectional area as the rectangle. With no warping restraint the two sections will have essentially the same stiffness factor $K$ (see Table 10.1, cases 4 and 26). With warping restraint provided at one end of the bar, the rectangle will be stiffened very little but the built-in flanges of the I-beam act as cantilever beams. The shear forces developed in the flanges as a result of the bending of these cantilevers will assist the torsional shear stresses in carrying the applied torque and greatly increase the stiffness of the bar unless the length is very great.

**Formulas.** Table 10.2 gives formulas for the warping stiffness factor $C_w$, the torsional stiffness factor $K$, the location of the shear center, the magnitudes and locations within the cross section of the maximum shear stresses due to simple torsion, the maximum shear stresses due to warping, and the maximum bending stresses due to warping. All the cross sections listed are assumed to have thin walls and the same thickness throughout the section unless otherwise indicated.