SEC. 3.14] The Behavior of Bodies under Stress 61

45. Fuchs, H. O., and R. I. Stephens: “Metal Fatigue in Engineering,” John Wiley & Sons, 1980.  
46. “Fatigue and Microstructure,” papers presented at the 1978 ASM Materials Science Seminar, American Society for Metals, 1979.  
47. Pook, L. P.: “The Role of Crack Growth in Metal Fatigue,” The Metals Society, London, 1983.  
48. Ritchie, R. O., and J. Larkford (eds.): “Small Fatigue Cracks,” Proceedings of the Second Engineering Foundation International Conference/Workshop, Santa Barbara, Calif., Jan. 5–10, 1986, The Metallurgical Society, Inc., 1986.  
49. “Int. J. Fracture,” Martinus Nijhoff.  
50. *Eng. Fracture Mech.*, Pergamon Journals.  
51. *Journal of Reinforced Plastics and Composites*, Technomic Publishing.  
52. Liebowitz, H. (ed.): “Fracture,” Academic Press, 1968.  
53. Sih. G. C.: “Handbook of Stress Intensity Factors,” Institute of Fracture and Solid Mechanics, Lehigh University, 1973.  
54. Kobayashi, A. S. (ed.): “Experimental Techniques in Fracture Mechanics, 1 and 2,” Iowa State University Press, 1973 and 1975.  
55. Broek, D.: “Elementary Engineering Fracture Mechanics,” 3d ed., Martinus Nijhoff, 1982.  
56. Atluri, S. N. (ed): “Computational Methods in the Mechanics of Fracture,” North-Holland, 1984.  
57. Sih. G. C., E. Sommer, and W. Dahl (eds.): “Application of Fracture Mechanics to Materials and Structures,” Martinus Nijhoff, 1984.  
58. Kobayashi, A. S. (ed.): “Handbook on Experimental Mechanics,” Prentice-Hall, 1987.  
59. Budynas, R. G.: “Advanced Strength and Applied Stress Analysis,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1999.  
60. Schwartz, M. M.: “Composite Materials Handbook,” 2nd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1992.