52  Formulas for Stress and Strain  [CHAP. 3]

fractured specimens will show that the material at the root of the notch has tried to contract laterally. Where the fracture energy is large, there is evidence of a large lateral contraction; and where the fracture energy is small, the lateral contraction is essentially zero. In all cases the lateral contraction is resisted by the adjacent less stressed material. The deeper and sharper cracks have relatively more material to resist lateral contraction. Thicker specimens have a greater distance over which to build up the necessary *triaxial* tensile stresses that lead to a tensile failure without producing enough shear stress to cause yielding. Thus, the term *transition temperature* is somewhat relative since it depends upon notch geometry as well as specimen size and shape. Since yielding is a flow phenomenon, it is apparent that rate of loading is also important. Static loading of sufficient intensity may start a brittle fracture, but it can continue under much lower stress levels owing to the higher rate of loading.

The ensuing research in the field of *fracture mechanics* has led to the development of both acceptable theories and experimental techniques, the discussion of which is beyond the scope of this book. Users should examine Refs. 49–58 for information and for extensive bibliographies.

## 3.10 Stress Concentration

The distribution of elastic stress across the section of a member may be nominally uniform or may vary in some regular manner, as illustrated by the linear distribution of stress in flexure. When the variation is abrupt so that within a very short distance the intensity of stress increases greatly, the condition is described as *stress concentration*. It is usually due to local irregularities of form such as small holes, screw threads, scratches, and similar *stress raisers*. There is obviously no hard and fast line of demarcation between the rapid variation of stress brought about by a stress raiser and the variation that occurs in such members as sharply curved beams, but in general the term *stress concentration* implies some form of irregularity not inherent in the member as such but accidental (tool marks) or introduced for some special purpose (screw thread).

The maximum intensity of elastic stress produced by many of the common kinds of stress raisers can be ascertained by mathematical analysis, photoelastic analysis, or direct strain measurement and is usually expressed by the *stress concentration factor*. This term is defined in Appendix B, but its meaning may be made clearer by an example. Consider a straight rectangular beam, originally of uniform breadth $b$ and depth $D$, which has had cut across the lower face a fairly sharp transverse V-notch of uniform depth $h$, making the net depth of the beam section at that point $D - h$. If now the beam is subjected to a uniform bending moment $M$, the *nominal* fiber stress at the root of the