# Formulas for Stress and Strain

ture $T + \Delta T$, the temperature gradient between the faces being linear. The plate would normally assume a spherical curvature with radius $t/(\Delta T \gamma)$. If the edges are fixed, the plate will be held flat by uniform edge moments and the maximum resulting bending stress will be $\tfrac{1}{2}\Delta T \gamma E/(1 - \nu)$ (compression on the hot face; tension on the cold face). (For many other conditions of edge restraint and axisymmetric partial heating, see Table 11.2, cases 8a–8h; a more general treatment of the solid circular plate is given in Table 11.2, case 15.)

6. If the plate described in case 5 is circular, no stress is produced by supporting the edges in a direction normal to the plane of the plate.

7. If the plate described in case 5 has the shape of an equilateral triangle of altitude $a$ (sides $2a/\sqrt{3}$) and the edges are rigidly supported so as to be held in a plane, the supporting reactions will consist of a uniform load $\tfrac{1}{8}\Delta T \gamma E t^2/a$ per unit length along each edge against the hot face and a concentrated load $\sqrt{3}\Delta T \gamma E t^2/12$ at each corner against the cold face. The maximum resulting bending stress is $\tfrac{3}{4}\Delta T \gamma E$ at the corners (compression on the hot face; tension on the cold face). There are also high shear stresses near the corners (Ref. 8).

8. If the plate described in case 5 is square, no simple formula is available for the reactions necessary to hold the edges in their original plane. The maximum bending stress occurs near the edges, and its value approaches $\tfrac{1}{2}\Delta T \gamma E$. There are also high shear stresses near the corners (Ref. 8).

## Stresses due to internal constraint

9. Part or all of the surface of a solid body is suddenly subjected to a temperature change $\Delta T$; a compressive stress $\Delta T \gamma E/(1 - \nu)$ is developed in the surface layer of the heated part (Ref. 7).

10. A thin circular disk at uniform temperature has the temperature changed $\Delta T$ throughout a comparatively small central circular portion of radius $a$. Within the heated part there are radial and tangential compressive stresses, $\sigma_r = \sigma_t = \tfrac{1}{2}\Delta T \gamma E$. At points outside the heated part a distance $r$ from the center of the disk but still close to the central portion, the stresses are $\sigma_r = \tfrac{1}{2}\Delta T \gamma E a^2/r^2$ (compression) and $\sigma_t = \tfrac{1}{2}\Delta T \gamma E a^2/r^2$ (tension); at the edge of the heated portion, there is a maximum shear stress $\tfrac{1}{2}\Delta T \gamma E$ (Ref. 7).

11. If the disk of case 10 is heated uniformly throughout a small central portion of elliptical instead of circular outline, the maxi-