# Formulas for Stress and Strain

[CHAP. 15]

85. Sendelbeck, R. L., and J. Singer: Further Experimental Studies of Buckling of Electroformed Conical Shells, *AIAA J.*, vol. 8, no. 8, 1970.  
86. Stein, M., and J. A. McElman: Buckling of Segments of Toroidal Shells, *AIAA J.*, vol. 3, no. 9, 1965.  
87. Sobel, L. H., and W. Flügge: Stability of Toroidal Shells under Uniform External Pressure, *AIAA J.*, vol. 5, no. 3, 1967.  
88. Almroth, B. O., L. H. Sobel, and A. R. Hunter: An Experimental Investigation of the Buckling of Toroidal Shells, *AIAA J.*, vol. 7, no. 11, 1969.  
89. Loo, Ta-Cheng, and R. M. Evan-Iwanowski: Interaction of Critical Pressures and Critical Concentrated Loads Acting on Shallow Spherical Shells, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 33, no. 3, 1966.  
90. Loo, Ta-Cheng, and R. M. Evan-Iwanowski: Experiments on Stability on Spherical Caps, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 90, no. EM3, 1964.  
91. Arbocz, J., and C. D. Babcock, Jr.: The Effect of General Imperfections on the Buckling of Cylindrical Shells, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 36, no. 1, 1969.  
92. Burns, J. J. Jr.: Experimental Buckling of Thin Shells of Revolution, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 90, no. EM3, 1964.  
93. Roorda, J.: Some Thoughts on the Southwell Plot, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 93, no. EM6, 1967.  
94. Navaratna, D. R., T. H. H. Pian, and E. A. Witmer: Stability Analysis of Shells of Revolution by the Finite-Element Method, *AIAA J.*, vol. 6, no. 2, 1968.  
95. Stein, M.: Some Recent Advances in the Investigation of Shell Buckling, *AIAA J.*, vol. 6, no. 12, 1968.  
96. Rabinovich, I. M. (ed.): “Structural Mechanics in the U.S.S.R. 1917–1957,” Pergamon Press, 1960 (English transl. edited by G. Herrmann).  
97. Baker, E. H., L. Kovalevsky, and F. L. Rish: “Structural Analysis of Shells,” McGraw-Hill, 1972.  
98. Perrone, N.: *Compendium of Structural Mechanics Computer Programs*, *Comput. & Struct.*, vol. 2, no. 3, April 1972. (Available from NTIS as N71-32026, April 1971.)  
99. Bushnell, D.: Stress, Stability, and Vibration of Complex, Branched Shells of Revolution, *AIAA/ASME/SAE 14th Struct., Struct. Dynam. & Mater. Conf.*, March, 1973.  
100. “Structural Sandwich Composites,” MIL-HDBK-23, U.S. Dept. of Defense, 1968.  
101. Allen, H. G., and P. S. Bulson: “Background to Buckling,” McGraw-Hill, 1980.  
102. Thompson, J. M. T., and G. W. Hunt (eds.): “Collapse: The Buckling of Structures in Theory and Practice,” IUTAM/Cambridge University Press, 1983.  
103. Narayanan, R. (ed.): “Axially Compressed Structures: Stability and Strength,” Elsevier Science, 1982.  
104. Brush, D. O., and B. O. Almroth: “Buckling of Bars, Plates, and Shells,” McGraw-Hill, 1975.  
105. Kollár, L., and E. Dulácska: “Buckling of Shells for Engineers,” English transl. edited by G. R. Thompson, John Wiley & Sons, 1984.  
106. Yamaki, N.: “Elastic Stability of Circular Cylindrical Shells,” Elsevier Science, 1984.  
107. “Collapse Analysis of Structures,” *Pressure Vessels and Piping Division, ASME, PVP*, vol. 84, 1984.  
108. Bushnell, D.: “Computerized Buckling Analysis of Shells,” Kluwer, 1985.  
109. Johnston, B. G. (ed.): “Guide to Stability Design Criteria for Metal Structures,” 3d ed., Structural Stability Research Council, John Wiley & Sons, 1976.  
110. White, R. N., and C. G. Salmon (eds.): “Building Structural Design Handbook,” John Wiley & Sons, 1987.  
111. American Institute of Steel Construction: “Manual of Steel Construction—Load and Resistance Factor Design,” 1st ed., 1986.