# 6.1 Measurement Techniques

The determination of stresses produced under a given loading of a structural system by means of experimental techniques are based on the measurement of deflections. Since strain is directly related to (the rate of change of) deflection, it is common practice to say that the measurements made are that of strain. Stresses are then determined implicitly using the stress–strain relations. Deflections in a structural system can be measured through changes in resistance, capacitance, or inductance of electrical elements; optical effects of interference, diffraction, or refraction; or thermal emissions. Measurement is comparatively easy when the stress is fairly uniform over a considerable length of the part in question, but becomes more difficult when the stress is localized or varies greatly with position. Short gage lengths and great precision require stable gage elements and stable electronic amplification if used. If dynamic strains are to be measured, a suitable high-frequency response is also necessary. In an isotropic material undergoing uniaxial stress, one normal strain measurement is all that is necessary. On a free surface under biaxial stress conditions, two measured orthogonal normal strains will provide the stresses in the same directions of the measured strains. On a free surface under a general state of plane stress, three measured normal strains in different directions will allow the determination of the stresses in directions at that position (see Sec. 6.2). At a free edge in a member that is thin perpendicular to the free edge, the state of stress is uniaxial and, as stated earlier, can be determined from one normal strain tangent to the edge. Another tactic might be to measure the change in thickness or the through-thickness strain at the edge. This might be more practical, such as measuring the strain at the bottom of a groove in a thin plate. For example, assume an orthogonal $xyz$ coordinate system where $x$ is parallel to the edge and $z$ is in the direction of the thickness at the edge. Considering a linear, isotropic material, from Hooke's law, $\varepsilon_z = -\nu \sigma_x/E$. Thus, $\sigma_x = -E\varepsilon_z/\nu$.

The following descriptions provide many of the successful instruments and techniques used for strain measurement. They are listed in a general order of mechanical, electrical, optical, and thermal methods. Optical and thermal techniques have been greatly enhanced by advances in digital image processing technology for computers (see Chap. 21 of Ref. 27).

**1. Mechanical measurement.** A direct measurement of strain can be made with an Invar tape over a gage length of several meters or with a pair of dividers over a reasonable fraction of a meter. For shorter gage lengths, mechanical amplification can be used, but friction is a problem and vibration can make them difficult to mount and to