**SEC. 6.2]** **Experimental Methods** 87

**8. Shadow optical method of caustics.** The very simple images created by the reflection or refraction of light from the surface contours of high-gradient stress concentrations such as those at the tips of cracks make the use of the shadow optical method of caustics very useful for dynamic studies of crack growth or arrest. Chapter 9 of Ref. 27 gives a detailed discussion of this technique and a comparison to photoelastic studies for the same loadings.

**9. X-ray diffraction.** X-ray diffraction makes possible the determination of changes in interatomic distance and thus the measurement of elastic strain. The method has the particular advantages that it can be used at points of high stress concentration and to determine residual stresses without cutting the object of investigation.

**10. Stress-pattern analysis by thermal emission.** This technique uses computer enhancement of infrared detection of very small temperature changes in order to produce digital output related to stress at a point on the surface of a structure, a stress graph along a line on the surface, or a full-field isopachic stress map of the surface. Under cyclic loading, at a frequency high enough to assure that any heat transfer due to stress gradients is insignificant, the thermoelastic effect produces a temperature change proportional to the change in the sum of the principal stresses. Although calibration corrections must be made for use at widely differing ambient temperatures, the technique works over a wide range of temperatures and on a variety of structural materials including metals, wood, concrete, and plain and reinforced plastics. Tests have been made on some metals at temperatures above 700°C. Chapter 14 of Ref. 27 describes and surveys work on this technique.

## 6.2 Electrical Resistance Strain Gages

**General.** The use of electrical resistance strain gages is probably the most common method of measurement in experimental stress analysis. In addition, strain gage technology is quite important in the design of transducer instrumentation for the measurement of force, torque, pressure, etc.

Electrical resistance strain gages are based on the principal that the resistance $R$ of a conductor changes as a function of normal strain $\varepsilon$. The resistance of a conductor can be expressed as

$$
R = \rho \frac{L}{A}
$$

(6.2-1)

where $\rho$ is the resistivity of the conductor (ohms-length), and $L$ and $A$ are the length and cross-sectional area of the conductor respectively. It