SEC. 6.1]

# Experimental Methods

85

may be determined at every point in a two-dimensional specimen (Refs. 2–6, 10, 14, 18, 27, and 28). Many suitable photoelastic plastics are available. The material properties that must be considered are transparency, sensitivity (relative index of refraction change with stress), optical and mechanical creep, modulus of elasticity, ease of machining, cost, and stability (freedom from stresses developing with time). Materials with appropriate creep properties may be used for *photoplasticity* studies (Ref. 16).

*(b) Three-dimensional analysis.* Several photoelastic techniques are used to determine stresses in three-dimensional specimens. If information is desired at a single point only, the optical polarizers, wave plates, and photoelastically sensitive material can be *embedded* in a transparent model (Ref. 2) and two-dimensional techniques used. A modification of this technique, *stress freezing,* is possible in some biphase materials. By heating, loading, cooling, and unloading, it is possible to lock permanently into the specimen, on a *molecular* level, strains proportional to those present under load. Since equilibrium exists at a molecular level, the specimen can be cut into two-dimensional slices and all *secondary principal stress differences* determined. The secondary principal stresses at a point are defined as the largest and smallest normal stresses in the plane of the slice; these in general will not correspond with the principal stresses at that same point in the three-dimensional structure. If desired, the specimen can be cut into cubes and the three principal stress differences determined. The individual principal stresses at a given point cannot be determined from photoelastic data taken at that point alone since the addition of a hydrostatic stress to any cube of material would not be revealed by differences in the indexes of refraction. Mathematical integration techniques, which start at a point where the hydrostatic stress component is known, can be used with photoelastic data to determine all individual principal stresses.

A third method, *scattered light photoelasticity,* uses a laser beam of intense monochromatic polarized light or a similar thin sheet of light passing through photoelastically sensitive transparent models that have the additional property of being able to scatter uniformly a small portion of the light from any point on the beam or sheet. The same general restrictions apply to this analysis as applied to the stress-frozen three-dimensional analysis except that the specimen does not have to be cut. However, the amount of light available for analysis is much less, the specimen must be immersed in a fluid with an index of refraction that very closely matches that of the specimen, and in general the data are much more difficult to analyze.

*(c) Photoelastic coating.* Photoelastic coatings have been sprayed, bonded in the form of thin sheets, or cast directly in place on the
