# Formulas for Stress and Strain

A photoelastic\* model is shown in Fig. 17.3(b). From a photoelastic analysis, the stresses at points $a$, $b$, and $c$ are found to be

zone $A$–$A$: $\qquad \sigma_a = 320$ psi

zone $B$–$B$: $\qquad \sigma_b = 280$ psi, $\qquad \sigma_c = 1130$ psi

The nominal stress in zone $B$–$B$ is

$$
\sigma_{\text{nom}} = \frac{D}{D - 2r}\sigma_0 = \frac{1.50}{1.50 - 0.5}320 = 480 \text{ psi}
$$

If the stress was uniform from $b$ to $c$, the stress would be 480 psi. However, the photoelastic analysis shows the stress to be nonuniform, ranging from 280 psi at $b$ to a maximum stress at $c$ of 1130 psi. Thus, for this example, the stress concentration factor is found to be

$$
K_t = \frac{\sigma_{\max}}{\sigma_{\text{nom}}} = \frac{1130}{480} = 2.35
$$

The static stress concentration factor for a plate containing a centrally located hole in which the plate is loaded in tension depends on the ratio $2r/D$ as given for case 7a of Table 17.1. For our example here, $2r/D = 0.5/1.5 = \frac{1}{3}$. The equation for $K_t$ from Table 17.1 gives

$$
K_t = 3.00 - 3.13\left(\frac{1}{3}\right) + 3.66\left(\frac{1}{3}\right)^2 - 1.53\left(\frac{1}{3}\right)^3 = 2.31
$$

which is within 2% of the results from the photoelastic model.

Table 17.1 provides the means to evaluate the static stress concentration factors in the elastic range for many cases that apply to fundamental forms of geometry and loading conditions.

## Neuber’s Formula for Nonlinear Material Behavior.

If the load on a structure exceeds the value for which the maximum stress at a stress concentration equals the elastic limit of the material, the stress distribution changes from that within the elastic range. Neuber (Ref. 61) presented a formula which includes stress and strain. Defining an effective stress concentration factor, $K_\sigma = \sigma_{\max}/\sigma_{\text{nom}}$, and an effective strain concentration factor, $K_\varepsilon = \varepsilon_{\max}/\varepsilon_{\text{nom}}$, Neuber established that $K_t$ is the geometric means of the stress and strain factors. That is,

$$
K_t = (K_\sigma K_\varepsilon)^{1/2},
$$

or

$$
K_\sigma = \frac{K_t^2}{K_\varepsilon}
\tag{17.1-3}
$$

\*Photoelasticity is discussed at some length in Ref. 60.