SEC. 4.6] Principles and Analytical Methods 67

As defined by this procedure, the *theorem of least work* is implicit in Castigliano’s theorem: It furnishes a method of solution identical with the method of consistent deflections, the deflection used being zero and expressed as a partial derivative of the strain energy. In a more general type of problem, it is necessary to determine which of an infinite number of possible stress distributions or configurations satisfies the condition of minimum strain energy. Since the development of software based on the finite-element method of analysis the electronic computer has made practicable the solution of many problems of this kind—shell analysis, elastic and plastic buckling, etc.—that formerly were relatively intractable.

## 4.6 Dimensional Analysis

Most physical quantities can be expressed in terms of mass, length, and time conveniently represented by the symbols $M$, $L$, and $t$, respectively. Thus velocity is $Lt^{-1}$ acceleration is $Lt^{-2}$, force is $MLt^{-2}$, unit stress is $ML^{-1}t^{-2}$, etc. A formula in which the several quantities are thus expressed is a dimensional formula, and the various applications of this system of representation constitute *dimensional analysis*.

Dimensional analysis may be used to check formulas for homogeneity, check or change units, derive formulas, and establish the relationships between similar physical systems that differ in scale (e.g., a model and its prototype). In strength of materials, dimensional analysis is especially useful in checking formulas for homogeneity. To do this, it is not always necessary to express *all* quantities dimensionally since it may be possible to cancel some terms. Thus it is often convenient to express force by some symbol, as $F$, until it is ascertained whether or not all terms representing force can be canceled.

For example, consider the formula for the deflection $y$ at the free end of a cantilever beam of length $l$ carrying a uniform load per unit length, $w$. This formula (Table 8.1) is

$$
y=-\frac{1}{8}\frac{wl^4}{EI}
$$

To test for homogeneity, omit the negative sign and the coefficient $\frac{1}{8}$ (which is dimensionless) and write the formula

$$
L=\frac{(F/L)^4}{(F/L^2)L^4}
$$

It is seen that $F$ cancels and the equation reduces at once to $L=L$, showing that the original equation was homogeneous.