twisting moment. Finally $\sigma_t$ and $\sigma_c$ can be found by Eqs. (10.4-1) and (10.4-2).

This stiffening and strengthening effect of induced longitudinal stress will manifest itself in any bar having a section composed of narrow rectangles, such as a I-, T-, or channel, provided that the parts are so thin as to permit a large unit twist without overstressing. At the same time the accompanying longitudinal compression [Eq. (10.4-2)] may cause failure through elastic instability (see Table 15.1).

If a thin strip of width $a$ and maximum thickness $b$ is *initially* twisted (as by cold working) to a helical angle $\beta$, then there is an initial stiffening effect in torsion that can be expressed by the ratio of effective $K$ to nominal $K$ (as given in Table 10.3):

$$
\frac{\text{Effective } K}{\text{Nominal } K} = 1 + C(1 + \nu)\beta^2\left(\frac{a}{b}\right)^2
$$

where $C$ is a numerical coefficient that depends on the shape of the cross section and is $\frac{2}{15}$ for a rectangle, $\frac{1}{8}$ for an ellipse, $\frac{1}{10}$ for a lenticular form, and $\frac{7}{60}$ for a double wedge (Ref. 22).

If a bar of any cross section is independently loaded in tension, then the corresponding longitudinal tensile stress $\sigma_t$ similarly will provide a resisting torque that again depends on the angle of twist, and the total applied torque corresponding to any angle of twist $\theta$ is $T = (KG + \sigma_t J)\theta/l$, where $J$ is the centroidal polar moment of inertia of the cross section. If the longitudinal loading causes a compressive stress $\sigma_c$, the equation becomes

$$
T = (KG - \sigma_c J)\frac{\theta}{l}
$$

Bending also influences the torsional stiffness of a rod unless the cross section has (1) two axes of symmetry, (2) point symmetry, or (3) one axis of symmetry that is normal to the plane of bending. (The influences of longitudinal loading and bending are discussed in Ref. 23.)

## 10.5 Ultimate Strength of Bars in Torsion

When twisted to failure, bars of ductile material usually break in shear, the surface of fracture being normal to the axis and practically flat. Bars of brittle material usually break in tension, the surface of fracture being helicoidal.

**Circular sections.** The formulas of Sec. 10.1 apply only when the maximum stress does not exceed the elastic limit. If Eq. (10.1-3) is used with $T$ equal to the twisting moment at failure, a fictitious value