740 **Formulas for Stress and Strain** \[CHAP. 15

28. Batdorf, S. B., M. Schildcrout, and M. Stein, Critical Combinations of Shear and Longitudinal Direct Stress for Long Plates with Transverse Curvature, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1347, 1947.  
29. Batdorf, S. B., M. Stein, and M. Schildcrout: Critical Shear Stress of Curved Rectangular Panels, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1348, 1947.  
30. Budiansky, B., R. W. Connor, and M. Stein: Buckling in Shear of Continuous Flat Plates, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1565, 1948.  
31. Peters, R. W.: Buckling Tests of Flat Rectangular Plates under Combined Shear and Longitudinal Compression, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1750, 1948.  
32. Budiansky, B., M. Stein, and A. C. Gilbert: Buckling of a Long Square Tube in Torsion and Compression, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1751, 1948.  
33. Libove, C., S. Ferdman, and J. G. Reusch: Elastic Buckling of a Simply Supported Plate under a Compressive Stress that Varies Linearly in the Direction of Loading, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1891, 1949.  
34. Schildcrout, M., and M. Stein: Critical Combinations of Shear and Direct Axial Stress for Curved Rectangular Panels, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron., Tech. Note* 1928, 1949.  
35. Pflüger, A.: “Stabilitätsprobleme der Elastostatik,” Springer-Verlag, 1964.  
36. Gerard, G., and Herbert Becker: Handbook of Structural Stability, *Natl. Adv. Comm. Aeron, Tech. Notes* 3781–3786 inclusive, and D163, 1957–1959.  
37. von Kármán, Th., and Hsue-shen Tsien: The Buckling of Spherical Shells by External Pressure, Pressure Vessel and Piping Design, *ASME Collected Papers* 1927–1959.  
38. Cheng, Shun: On the Theory of Bending of Sandwich Plates, *Proc. 4th U.S. Natl. Congr. Appl. Mech.*, 1962.  
39. U.S. Forest Products Laboratory: List of Publications on Structural Sandwich, Plastic Laminates, and Wood-base Aircraft Components, 1962.  
40. Lind, N. C.: Elastic Buckling of Symmetrical Arches, *Univ. Ill., Eng. Exp. Sta. Tech. Rept.* 3, 1962.  
41. Goodier, J. N., and N. J. Hoff (eds.): “Structural Mechanics,” Proc. 1st Symp. Nav. Struct. Mech., Pergamon Press, 1960.  
42. Collected Papers on Instability of Shell Structures, *Natl. Aeron. Space Admin., Tech. Note* D-1510, 1962.  
43. Kloppel, K., and O. Jungbluth: Beitrag zum Durchschlagproblem dünnwandiger Kugelschalen, *Der Stahlbau*, 1953.  
44. McComb, H. G. Jr., G. W. Zender, and M. M. Mikulas, Jr.: The Membrane Approach to Bending Instability of Pressurized Cylindrical Shells (in Ref. 42), p. 229.  
45. Burkhard, A., and W. Young: Buckling of a Simply-Supported Beam between Two Unattached Elastic Foundations, *AIAA J.*, vol. 11, no. 3, 1973.  
46. Gere, J. M., and W. O. Carter: Critical Buckling Loads for Tapered Columns, *Trans. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 128, pt. 2, 1963.  
47. Culver, C. G., and S. M. Preg, Jr.: Elastic Stability of Tapered Beam-Columns, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 94, no. ST2, 1968.  
48. Burgreen, D., and P. J. Manitt: Thermal Buckling of a Bimetallic Beam, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 95, no. EM2, 1969.  
49. Burgreen, D., and D. Regal: Higher Mode Buckling of Bimetallic Beam, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 97, no. EM4, 1971.  
50. Austin, W. J.: In-Plane Bending and Buckling of Arches, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 97, no. ST5, May 1971. Discussion by R. Schmidt, D. A. DaDeppo, and K. Forrester: *ibid.*, vol. 98, no. ST1, 1972.  
51. Chicurel, R.: Shrink Buckling of Thin Circular Rings, *ASME J. Appl. Mech.*, vol. 35, no. 3, 1968.  
52. Clark, J. W., and H. N. Hill: Lateral Buckling of Beams, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 86, no. ST7, 1960.  
53. Fowler, D. W.: Design of Laterally Unsupported Timber Beams, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 97, no. ST3, 1971.  
54. Massey, C., and P. J. McGuire: Lateral Stability of Nonuniform Cantilevers, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 97, no. EM3, 1971.  
55. Kitipornchai. S., and N. S. Trahair: Elastic Stability of Tapered I-Beams, *Proc. Am. Soc. Civil Eng.*, vol. 98, no. ST3, 1972.