# Formulas for Stress and Strain

**Modulus of resilience:** The strain energy per unit volume absorbed up to the elastic limit under conditions of uniform uniaxial stress.

**Modulus of rigidity, $G$ (modulus of elasticity in shear):** The rate of change of shear stress, $\tau$, with respect to shear strain, $\gamma$, within the proportional limit of a given material. For nonisotropic materials such as wood, it is necessary to distinguish between the moduli of rigidity in different directions.

**Modulus of rupture in bending (computed ultimate bending strength):** The fictitious normal stress in the extreme fiber of a beam computed by the flexure equation $\sigma = M_R c/I$, where $M_R$ is the bending moment that causes rupture.

**Modulus of rupture in torsion (computed ultimate torsional strength):** The fictitious shear stress at the outer radius of a circular shaft computed by the torsion equation $\tau = T_R r/J$, where $T_R$ is the torsional moment that causes rupture.

**Moment of an area (first moment of an area):** With respect to an axis within the plane of an area, the sum of the products obtained by multiplying each element of the area $dA$ by its distance, $y$, from the axis: it is therefore the quantity $\int y\, dA$.

**Moment of inertia of an area (second moment of an area):** With respect to an axis $x$ within the $xy$ plane of an area, the sum of the products obtained by multiplying each element of the area $dA$ by the square of the distance $y$ from the $x$ axis: it is thus the quantity $I_x = \int y^2\, dA$ (see Appendix A).

**Neutral axis:** The line of zero fiber stress in any given section of a member subject to bending; it is the line formed by the intersection of the neutral surface and the section.

**Neutral surface:** The longitudinal surface of zero fiber stress in a member subject to bending; it contains the neutral axis of every section.

**Notch-sensitivity factor:** Used to compare the *stress concentration factor* $K_t$ and *fatigue-strength reduction factor* $K_f$. The notch-sensitivity factor $q$ is commonly defined as the ratio $(K_f - 1)/(K_t - 1)$, and varies from 0, for some soft ductile materials, to 1, for some hard brittle materials.

**Plane strain:** A condition where the normal and shear strains in a particular direction are zero; e.g., $\varepsilon_z = \gamma_{zx} = \gamma_{zy} = 0$.

**Plane stress:** A condition where the normal and shear stresses in a particular direction are zero; e.g., $\sigma_z = \tau_{zx} = \tau_{zy} = 0$.