274 Formulae for Stress and Strain [CHAP. 9]

Formulas for the effective width of a flange in such a curved beam are given in Ref. 9 and are as follows.

When the flange is indefinitely wide (e.g., the inner flange of a pipe-stiffener ring), the effective width is

$$
b' = 1.56\sqrt{Rt}
$$

where $b'$ is the total width assumed effective, $R$ is the mean radius of curvature of the flange, and $t$ is the thickness of the flange.

When the flange has a definite unsupported width $b$ (gross width less web thickness), the ratio of effective to actual width $b'/b$ is a function of $qb$, where

$$
q = \sqrt[4]{\frac{3(1-\nu^2)}{R^2 t^2}}
$$

Corresponding values of $qb$ and $b'/b$ are as follows:

| $qb$ | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $b'/b$ | 0.980 | 0.850 | 0.610 | 0.470 | 0.380 | 0.328 | 0.273 | 0.244 | 0.217 | 0.200 | 0.182 |

For the curved beam each flange should be considered as replaced by one of corresponding effective width $b'$, and all calculations for direct, bending, and shear stresses, including corrections for curvature, should be based on this transformed section.

Bleich (Ref. 10) has shown that under a *straightening* moment where the curvature is decreased, the radial components of the fiber stresses in the flanges bend both flanges radially away from the web, thus producing tension in the fillet between flange and web in a direction normal to both the circumferential and radial normal stresses discussed in the previous section. Similarly, a moment which increases the curvature causes both flanges to bend radially toward the web and produce compressive stresses in the fillet between flange and web. The *nominal* values of these transverse bending stresses $\sigma'$ in the fillet, without any correction for the stress concentration at the fillet, are given by $|\sigma'| = |\beta \sigma_m|$, where $\sigma_m$ is the circumferential bending stress at the *midthickness* of the flange. This is less than the maximum value found in Table 9.1 and can be calculated by using Eq. (9.1-1). See the first example problem. The value of the coefficient $\beta$ depends upon the ratio $c^2/Rt$, where $c$ is the actual unsupported projecting width of the flange to either side of the web and $R$ and $t$ have the same meaning they did in the expressions for $b'$ and $q$. Values of $\beta$ may be found from the following table; they were taken from Ref. 10, where values of $b'$ are also tabulated.