the load required thus to hold the column is independent of the amount of the deflection. If this condition of balance exists at stresses less than the elastic limit, the condition is called *elastic stability* and the load that produces this condition is called the *critical* load. Any increase of the load beyond this critical value is usually attended by immediate collapse of the member.

It is the compressive stresses within long, thin sections of a structure that can cause instabilities. The compressive stress can be elastic or inelastic and the instability can be global or local. Global instabilities can cause catastrophic failure, whereas local instabilities may cause permanent deformation but not necessarily a catastrophic failure. For the Euler column, when instability occurs, it is global since the entire cross section is involved in the deformation. Localized buckling of the edges of the flange in compression of a wide-flange I-beam in bending can occur. Likewise, the center of the web of a transversely loaded I-beam or plate girder in bending undergoes pure shear where along the diagonal $(45^\circ)$ compressive stresses are present and localized buckling is possible.

Other examples of elastic stability are afforded by a thin cylinder under external pressure, a thin plate under edge compression or edge shear, and a deep thin cantilever beam under a transverse end load applied at the top surface. Some such elements, unlike the simple column described previously, do not fail under the load that initiates elastic buckling but demonstrate increasing resistance as the buckling progresses. Such *postbuckling* behavior is important in many problems of shell design. Elastic stability is discussed further in Chap. 15, and formulas for the critical loads for various members and types of loadings are given in Tables 15.1 and 15.2.

## 3.14 References

1. Roark, R. J. “Formulas for Stress and Strain,” 4th ed., McGraw-Hill, 1965.
2. “Wood Handbook,” Forest Products Laboratory, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, 1987.
3. Abramson, H. N., H. Liebowitz, J. M. Crowley, and S. Juhasz (eds.): “Applied Mechanics Surveys,” Spartan Books, 1966.
4. Conway, J. B.: “Stress-rupture Parameters: Origin, Calculation, and Use,” Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, 1969.
5. Conway, J. B.: “Numerical Methods for Creep and Rupture Analyses,” Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, 1967.
6. Conway, J. B., and P. N. Flagella: “Creep-rupture Data for the Refractory Metals to High Temperatures,” Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, 1971.
7. Odqvist, F. K. G.: “Mathematical Theory of Creep and Creep Rupture,” Oxford University Press, 1966.
8. Hult, J. A. H.: “Creep in Engineering Structures,” Blaisdell, 1966.
9. Penny, R. K., and D. L. Marriott: “Design for Creep,” McGraw-Hill, 1971.
10. Smith, A. I., and A. M. Nicolson (eds.): “Advances in Creep Design, The A. E. Johnson Memorial Volume,” Applied Science Publishers, 1971.
11. Davis, R. E., H. E. Davis, and J. S. Hamilton: Plastic Flow of Concrete under Sustained Stress, *Proc. ASTM*, vol. 34, part II, p. 854, 1934.