## SEC. 8.1

# Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars

for the vertical shears, bending moments, slopes, and deflections at any distance $x$ from the left end of the span.

In these formulas, the unit step function is used by itself and in combination with ordinary functions.

The unit step function is denoted by $\langle x - a \rangle^0$ where the use of the angle brackets $\langle \rangle$ is defined as follows: If $x < a$, $\langle x - a \rangle^0 = 0$; if $x > a$, $\langle x - a \rangle^0 = 1$. At $x = a$ the unit step function is undefined just as vertical shear is undefined directly beneath a concentrated load. The use of the angle brackets $\langle \rangle$ is extended to other cases involving powers of the unit step function and the ordinary function $(x - a)^n$. Thus the quantity $(x - a)^n \langle x - a \rangle^0$ is shortened to $\langle x - a \rangle^n$ and again is given a value of zero if $x < a$ and is $(x - a)^n$ if $x > a$.

In addition to the usual concentrated vertical loads, concentrated couples, and distributed loads, Table 8.1 also presents cases where the loading is essentially a development of reactions due to deformations created within the span. These cases include the concentrated angular displacement, concentrated transverse deflection, and linear temperature differential across the beam from top to bottom. *In all three cases it can be assumed that initially the beam was deformed but free of stress and then is forced to conform to the end conditions.* (In many cases no forces are created, and the formulas give only the deformed shape.)

Hetényi (Ref. 29) discusses in detail the Maclaurin series form of the equations used in this article and suggests (Ref. 53) that the deformation type of loading might be useful in solving beam problems. Thomson (Ref. 65) describes the use of the unit step function in the determination of beam deflections. By superposition, the formulas can be made to apply to almost any type of loading and support. The use of the tabulated and fundamental formulas given in this article is illustrated in the following examples.

# EXAMPLES

**1.** For a beam supported and loaded as shown in Fig. 8.2, it is required to determine the maximum tensile stress, maximum shear stress, and maximum compressive stress, assuming, first, that the beam is made of wood with section as shown in Fig. 8.2(a) second, that the beam is made of wood with section as shown in Fig. 8.2(b); and third that the beam is a 4-in, 7.7-lb steel I-beam.

**Solution.** By using the equations of equilibrium (Sec. 4.1), the left and right reactions are found to be 900 and 1500 lb, respectively. The shear and moment equations are therefore

$$
(x = 0 \text{ to } x = 160): \qquad V = 900 - 12x
$$

$$
M = 900x - 12x\left(\tfrac{1}{2}x\right)
$$

$$
(x = 160 \text{ to } x = 200): \qquad V = 900 - 12x + 1500
$$

$$
M = 900x - 12x\left(\tfrac{1}{2}x\right) + 1500(x - 160)
$$
