SEC. 8.12] Beams; Flexure of Straight Bars 173

mately the stress in a finite plate under an arbitrary transverse loading.

The stresses corresponding to the tabulated values of $K_m$ are *spanwise* ($x$ direction) stresses; the maximum *crosswise* ($z$ direction) stress occurs under the load when the load is applied at the midpoint of the free edge and is approximately equal to the maximum spanwise stress for that loading.

Although the previous formulas are based on the assumption of infinite width of a slab, tests (Ref. 26) on a plate with a width of $8 \frac{1}{2}$ in and span $a$ of $1 \frac{1}{4}$ in showed close agreement between calculated and measured deflections, and Holl’s analysis (Ref. 27), based on the assumption of a plate width four times the span, gives results that differ only slightly from MacGregor’s (Ref. 26). The formulas given should therefore be applicable to slabs of breadth as small as four times the span.

## 8.12 Beams with Wide Flanges; Shear Lag

In thin metal construction, box, T-, or I-beams with very wide thin cover plates or flanges are sometimes used, and when a thin plate is stiffened by an attached member, a portion of the plate may be considered as a flange, acting integrally with the attached member which forms the web; examples are to be found in ship hulls, floors, tanks, and aircraft. In either type of construction the question arises as to what width of flange or plate would be considered effective; i.e., what width, uniformly stressed to the maximum stress that actually occurs, would provide a resisting moment equal to that of the actual stresses, which are greatest near the web and diminish as the distance from it increases.

This problem has been considered by several investigators; the results tabulated on page 174 are due to Hildebrand and Reissner (Ref. 38), Winter (Ref. 39), and Miller (Ref. 28).

Let $b =$ actual net width of the flange (or clear distance between webs in continuous plate and stiffener construction), let $l =$ span, and let $b' =$ effective width of the flange at the section of maximum bending moment. Then the approximate value of $b'/b$, which varies with the loading and with the ratio $l/b$, can be found for beams of uniform section in the table on p. 174. (In this table the case numbers refer to the manner of loading and support represented in Table 8.1.) See also Ref. 37.

Some of the more important conclusions stated in Ref. 38 can be summarized as follows.

The amount of shear lag depends not only on the method of loading and support and the ratio of span to flange width but also on the ratio of $G$ to $E$ and on the ratio $m = (3I_w + I_s)/(I_w + I_s)$, where $I_w$ and $I_s$ are