# Formulas for Stress and Strain

Stresses are calculated on a ply-by-ply basis. In general, only the stresses along the beam axis will be of interest. The stress in ply $k$ is given by

$$
[\sigma_x]_k = z[\overline{Q}_{11}]_k \kappa_x
$$

(C.11)

where

$$
\kappa_x = M \left[ \left( D_{11} - \frac{B_{11}^2}{A_{11}} \right) b \right]^{-1}
$$

(C.12)

and $\overline{Q}$ is the transformed stiffness matrix of ply $k$. The components of $\overline{Q}$ are a function of the ply material properties and the orientation angle. $\overline{Q}$ is found while calculating the matrices $[A]$, $[B]$, and $[D]$, and is usually output by whatever software package is being used.

## EXAMPLE

A composite beam is made from T300/976 graphite epoxy with a $[0_3/\pm 45]_{{4T}}$ layup. It is 10 in. long, 0.5 in wide, cantilevered at the right end, and subjected to a concentrated load of 5 lb at the left end. It is desired to find the maximum deflection and the stresses at the mid-plane of the top five plies.

## Solution

From Table C.1, the ply properties are $E_1 = 19.6$ Msi, $E_2 = 1.34$ Msi, $G_{12} = 0.91$ Msi, and $\nu_{12} = 0.318$. Normalized ply thickness is 0.005 in, for a total laminate thickness of 0.100 in.

Using a standard software package, the constitutive properties are found to be $A_{11} = 1.440 \times 10^6$ lb/in, $B_{11} = -4.002 \times 10^3$ lb and $D_{11} = 1.193 \times 10^3$ lb-in. These values give an equivalent modulus of $E^{*'}I = 590.94$ lb-in$^2$. Table 8.1 of Chap. 8, Case 1a, then gives $-0.705$ in as the tip deflection and $-50$ in-lb as the moment.

The transformed stiffness properties, again from a standard software package, are $[\overline{Q}_{11}]^0 = 1.974 \times 10^7$ psi and $[\overline{Q}_{11}]^{\pm 45} = 6.396 \times 10^6$ psi. The curvature is $\kappa_x = -0.085$ in$^{-1}$, giving the following for the ply stresses:

| Ply | $z$ (in) | $\sigma_{11}$ (ksi) |
|---|---:|---:|
| 1 | $-0.0475$ | 79.34 |
| 2 | $-0.0425$ | 70.98 |
| 3 | $-0.0375$ | 62.63 |
| 4 | $-0.0325$ | 17.59 |
| 5 | $-0.0275$ | 14.88 |

The stresses $\sigma_{11}$ are in the laminate coordinate system. Because plies 4 and 5 are oriented at $+45^\circ$ and $-45^\circ$, the $\sigma_{11}$ stresses in the ply coordinate system have a shear component. Because the shear strength of composites is much lower than the tensile strength, this laminate would have to be checked for failure by comparing the resulting value of $\sigma_{11}$ in plies 4 and 5 with the ultimate shear strength of T300/976.