690  **Formulas for Stress and Strain**  [CHAP. 14]

dimensions of the circular, elliptical, or rectangular area of contact formed by the compressed surfaces. Except where otherwise indicated, these equations are based on Hertz's theory, which assumes the length of the cylinder and dimensions of the plate to be infinite. For a very short cylinder and for a plate having a width less than five or six times that of the contact area or a thickness less than five or six times the depth to the point of maximum shear stress, the actual stresses may vary considerably from the values indicated by the theory (see Refs. 4, 45, and 50). Tu (Ref. 50) discusses the stresses and deformations for a plate pressed between two identical elastic spheres with no friction; graphs are also presented. Pu and Hussain (Ref. 51) consider the unbonded contact between a flat plate and an elastic half-space when a normal load is applied to the plate. Graphs of the contact radii are presented for a concentrated load and two distributed loadings on circular areas.

Hertz (Ref. 1) based his work on the assumption that the contact area was small compared with the radius of the ball or cylinder; Goodman and Keer (Ref. 52) compare the work of Hertz with a solution which permits the contact area to be larger, such as the case when the negative radius of one surface is only very slightly larger (1.01 to 1) than the positive radius of the other. Cooper (Ref. 53) presents some reformulated hertzian coefficients in a more easily interpolated form and also points out some numerical errors in the coefficients originally published by Hertz. Dundurs and Stippes (Ref. 54) discuss the effect of Poisson's ratio on contact stress problems.

The use of the formulas of Table 14.1 is illustrated in the example at the end of this section. The general formula for case 4 can be used, as in the example, for any contact-stress problems involving any geometrically regular bodies except parallel cylinders, but for bearing calculations use should be made of charts such as those given in Refs. 33 and 34, which not only greatly facilitate calculations but provide for influences not taken into account in the formulas.

Because of the very small area involved in what initially approximates a point or line contact, contact stresses for even light loads are very high; but as the formulas show, the stresses do not increase in proportion to the loading. Furthermore, because of the facts that the stress is highly localized and triaxial, the actual stress intensity can be very high without producing apparent damage. To make use of the Hertz formulas for purposes of design or safe-load determination, it is necessary to know the relationship between theoretical stresses and likelihood of failure, whether from excessive deformation or fracture. In discussing this relationship, it is convenient to refer to the computed stress as the Hertz stress, whether the elastic range has been exceeded or not. Some of the available information showing the Hertz stress corresponding to loadings found to be safe and to loadings