# Formulas for Stress and Strain

can be shown that a change in $R$ due to changes in $\rho$, $L$ and $A$ is given by  
by

$$
\frac{\Delta R}{R} = (1 + 2\nu)\varepsilon + \frac{\Delta \rho}{\rho}
$$

(6.2-2)

where $\nu$ is Poisson's ratio, and assuming small strain on the conductor, $\varepsilon$, which is given by $\Delta L/L$. If the change in the resistance of the conductor is considered to be only due to the applied strain, then Eq. (6.2-2) can be written as

$$
\frac{\Delta R}{R} = S_a \varepsilon
$$

(6.2-3)

where

$$
S_a = 1 + 2\nu + \frac{\Delta \rho / \rho}{\varepsilon}
$$

(6.2-4)

$S_a$ is the *sensitivity* of the conductor to strain†. The first two terms come directly from changes in dimension of the conductor where for most metals the quantity $1 + 2\nu$ varies from 1.4 to 1.7. The last term in Eq. (6.2-4) is called the change in specific resistance relative to strain, and for some metals can account for much of the sensitivity to strain. The most commonly used material for strain gages is a copper-nickel alloy called Constantan, which has a strain sensitivity of 2.1. Other alloys used for strain gage applications are modified Karma, Nichrome V, and Isoelastic, which have sensitivities of 2.0, 2.2, and 3.6, respectively. The primary advantages of Constantan are:

1. The strain sensitivity $S_a$ is linear over a wide range of strain and does not change significantly as the material goes plastic.

2. The thermal stability of the material is excellent and is not greatly influenced by temperature changes when used on common structural materials.

3. The metallurgical properties of Constantan are such that they can be processed to minimize the error induced due to the mismatch in the thermal expansion coefficients of the gage and the structure to which it is adhered over a wide range of temperature.

† When using a commercial strain indicator, one must enter the sensitivity provided by the gage manufacturer. This sensitivity is referred to the gage factor of the gage, $S_g$. This is defined slightly differently than $S_a$, and will be discussed shortly.