# Formulas for Stress and Strain

very large. More often $\sigma$ and $\phi$ are adjusted empirically to make the equation agree with the results of tests through the $L/r$ range of most importance.

## Simple polynomial formula

$$
\frac{P}{A}=\sigma-k\left(\frac{L}{r}\right)^n
$$
(12.1-4)

This is an empirical formula. For most steels the exponent $n$ is chosen as 2 and $\sigma$ is chosen as the yield point to give the well-known parabolic formula. The constant $k$ is generally chosen to make the parabola intersect tangent to the Euler curve for a long column. See Refs. 1 to 4.

For cast irons and for many of the aluminum alloys (Refs. 1 and 5) the exponent $n$ is taken as unity to give a straight-line formula. If $\sigma$ were here taken as the maximum fiber stress at failure and the straight line made tangent to the Euler curve, the formula would give values well below experimental values. For this reason the straight-line formula is generally used for intermediate lengths with $\sigma$ and $k$ modified to make the straight line pass through the experimental data of interest. For columns shorter than intermediate in length, a constant value of $P/A$ is given; for those longer than intermediate, the Euler curve is specified.

For timber the exponent $n$ is usually chosen as 4 (Refs. 1 and 6) and then treated in the same manner as was the parabolic formula. The value used for $\sigma$ is generally the ultimate compressive strength of the timber.

## Exponential formula

$$
\frac{P}{A}=C_1^{\lambda^2}\sigma
\qquad \text{where} \qquad
\lambda=\frac{KL}{r\pi}\left(\frac{\sigma}{E}\right)^{1/2}
$$
(12.1-5)

The American Institute of Steel Construction in Ref. 7 suggests the use of a formula of the form shown in Eq. (12.1-5), where $K$, $L$, $r$, and $\sigma$ are as defined for the secant formula. The constant $\lambda$ combines the column dimensions $L$ and $r$, the degree of end fixity indicated by $K$, and the material properties $\sigma$ and $E$. The secant, Rankine, parabolic, exponential, and Euler formulas can all be expressed in terms of $\lambda$ and a simple tabulation used to compare them.

Parabolic formula

$$
\frac{P/A}{\sigma}=1-\frac{\lambda^2}{4}
\qquad \text{for } \lambda < 1.414
$$

Exponential formula

$$
\frac{P/A}{\sigma}=0.6922^{\lambda^2}
\qquad \text{for } \lambda < 1.649
$$