# Formulas for Stress and Strain

the deflection is in the direction of the assumed unit load; a negative result means it is in the opposite direction (see Example 2 at the end of this section).

In Eq. (8.1-7), $U$ is given by Eq. (8.1-3) and $P$ is a vertical load, real or imaginary, applied at the section where $y_c$ is to be found. It is most convenient to perform the differentiation within the integral sign; as with Eq. (8.1-6), the integration must extend over the entire length of the beam, and the sign of the result is interpreted as before.

The change in slope of elastic curve $\Delta \theta$ (radians) between any two sections $a$ and $b$ is

$$
\Delta \theta = \int_a^b \frac{M}{EI}\,dx
$$

(8.1-8)

where $M$ has the same meaning as in Eq. (8.1-3).

The deflection $\Delta y_c$ at any section $a$, *measured vertically from a tangent drawn to the elastic curve at any section* $b$, is

$$
\Delta y_c = \int_a^b \frac{M}{EI} x\,dx
$$

(8.1-9)

where $x$ is the distance from $a$ to any section $dx$ between $a$ and $b$.

Important relations between the bending moment and shear equations are

$$
V = \frac{dM}{dx}
$$

(8.1-10)

$$
M = \int V\,dx
$$

(8.1-11)

These relations are useful in constructing shear and moment diagrams and locating the section or sections of maximum bending moment since Eq. (8.1-10) shows that the maximum moment occurs when $V$, its first derivative, passes through zero and Eq. (8.1-11) shows that the increment in bending moment that occurs between any two sections is equal to the area under the shear diagram between those sections.

**Maximum fiber stress.** The maximum fiber stress at any section occurs at the point or points most remote from the neutral axis and is given by Eq. (8.1-1) when $y = c$; hence

$$
\sigma_{\max} = \frac{Mc}{I} = \frac{M}{I/c} = \frac{M}{S}
$$

(8.1-12)