where

$$
(S_g)_T=\left(1+\frac{\Delta S_g(\%)}{100}\right)(S_g)_i
$$

(6.2-7)

and $\Delta S_g(\%)$ being the percent variation in gage factor given in Fig. 6.6.

If a simultaneous correction for apparent strain and gage factor variation is necessary, the corrected strain is given by

$$
\varepsilon_{\text{actual}}=\frac{(S_g)_i}{(S_g)_T}\left(\varepsilon_{\text{reading}}-\varepsilon_{\text{apparent}}\right)
$$

(6.2-8)

# EXAMPLE

A strain gage with the characteristics of Fig. 6.6 has a room-temperature gage factor of 2.1 and is mounted on a 1018 steel specimen. A strain measurement of $-1800\ \mu$ is recorded during the test when the temperature is $150^{\circ}\mathrm{C}$. Determine the value of actual test strain if:

(a) the gage is in a half-bridge circuit with a dummy temperature compensating gage and prior to testing, the indicator is zeroed with the gage factor set at 2.1.

(b) the gage is the only gage in a quarter-bridge circuit and prior to testing, the indicator is zeroed with the gage factor set at 2.0.

**Solution.** From Fig. 6.6, the gage factor variation at $150^{\circ}\mathrm{C}$ is $\Delta S_g(\%)=1.13\%$. Thus, from Eq. (6.2-7), the gage factor at the test temperature is

$$
(S_g)_T=\left(1+\frac{1.13}{100}\right)(2.1)=2.124
$$

(a) Since in this part, a dummy gage is present that cancels the apparent strain, the only correction that is necessary is due to the change in the gage factor. From Eq. (6.2-6),

$$
\varepsilon_{\text{actual}}=\left(\frac{2.1}{2.124}\right)(-1800)=-1780\ \mu
$$

which we see is a minor correction.

(b) In this part, we must use Eq. (6.2-8). Using the equation given in Fig. 6.6, the apparent strain at the test temperature is

$$
\varepsilon_{\text{apparent}}=-48.85+(3.86)(150)-(7.85E{-}02)(150)^2
$$

$$
+(4.05E{-}04)(150)^3-(5.28E{-}07)(150)^4=-136.5\ \mu
$$