# Preface to the Seventh Edition

x

tions incorporated in Part 1 of the previous editions are retained in the seventh edition, and are found in Appendix B as a glossary.

- Properties of plane areas are located in Appendix A.
- Composite material coverage is expanded, where an introductory discussion is provided in Appendix C, which presents the nomenclature associated with composite materials and how available computer software can be employed in conjunction with the tables contained within this book.
- Stress concentrations are presented in Chapter 17.
- Part 2, Chapter 2, is completely revised, providing a more comprehensive and modern presentation of stress and strain transformations.
- Experimental Methods. Chapter 6, is expanded, presenting more coverage on electrical strain gages and providing tables of equations for commonly used strain gage rosettes.
- Correction terms for multielement shells of revolution were presented in the sixth edition. Additional information is provided in Chapter 13 of this edition to assist users in the application of these corrections.

The authors wish to acknowledge and convey their appreciation to those individuals, publishers, institutions, and corporations who have generously given permission to use material in this and previous editions. Special recognition goes to Barry J. Berenberg and Universal Technical Systems, Inc. who provided the presentation on composite materials in Appendix C, and Dr. Marietta Scanlon for her review of this work.

Finally, the authors would especially like to thank the many dedicated readers and users of *Roark’s Formulas for Stress & Strain*. It is an honor and quite gratifying to correspond with the many individuals who call attention to errors and/or convey useful and practical suggestions to incorporate in future editions.

*Warren C. Young*  
*Richard G. Budynas*