identify maximum values if they occur at points between the chosen grid points.

Table 11.4 presents maximum values where possible and the significant values otherwise for deflections normal to the plate surface, bending stresses, and in many cases the boundary reaction forces $R$. For rectangular plates with simply supported edges the maximum stresses are shown to be near the center of the plate. There are, however, stresses of similar magnitude near the corners if the corners are held down as has been assumed for all cases presented. Reference 21 discusses the increase in stress at the center of the plate when the corners are permitted to rise. For a uniformly loaded square plate this increase in stress is approximately 35%.

It is impractical to include plates of all possible shapes and loadings, but many more cases can be found in the literature. Barés (Ref. 47) presents tabulated values of bending moments and deflections for a series of plates in the form of *isoceles triangles* and *symmetric trapezoids* for linearly varying lateral pressures and for values of Poisson’s ratio of 0.0 and 0.16. Tabulated values are given for *skew* plates with uniform lateral loading and concentrated lateral loads for the support conditions where two opposite edges are simply supported and two edges are free; the value of Poisson’s ratio used was zero. In addition to many cases also included in Table 11.4, Marguerre and Woernle (Ref. 50) give results for line loading and uniform loading on a narrow strip across a rectangular plate. They also discuss the case of a rectangular plate supported within the span by elastic cross beams. Morley (Ref. 51) discusses solutions of problems involving *parallelogram*, or *skew*, plates and box structures. A few graphs and tables of results are given.

For plates with boundary shapes or restraints not discussed in the literature, we can only approximate an answer or resort to a direct numerical solution of the problem at hand. All numerical methods are approximate but can be carried to any degree of accuracy desired at the expense of time and computer costs. There are many numerical techniques used to solve plate problems, and the choice of a method for a given problem can be difficult. Leissa et al. (Ref. 56) have done a very complete and competent job of comparing and rating 9 approximate numerical methods on the basis of 11 different criteria. Szilard (Ref. 84) discusses both classical and numerical methods and tabulates many solutions.

**Variable thickness.** Petrina and Conway (Ref. 63) give numerical data for two sets of boundary conditions, three aspect ratios and two nearly linear tapers in plate thickness. The loading was uniform and they found that the center deflection and center moment differed little from