396  **Formulas for Stress and Strain**  [CHAP. 10

To obtain the rotation of the crane at the load, substitute $x = 144$ into

$$
\theta = \theta_A + \frac{\theta'_A}{\beta}F_2 + \frac{T_c}{C_wEP^3}F_{a4(c)}
$$

$$
= -0.04847 + \frac{0.0008221}{0.0236}14.9414 - \frac{7728(4.7666 - 2.2656)}{142.2(30)(10^6)(0.0236^3)} = 0.1273
$$

$$
= 7.295^\circ
$$

## 10.4 Effect of Longitudinal Stresses

It was pointed out in Sec. 10.1 that the elongation of the outer fibers consequent upon twist caused longitudinal stresses, but that in a bar of circular section these stresses were negligible. In a flexible bar, the section of which comprises one or more narrow rectangles, the stresses in the longitudinal fibers may become large; and since after twisting these fibers are inclined, the stresses in them have components, normal to the axis of twist, which contribute to the torsional resistance of the member.

The stress in the longitudinal fibers of a thin twisted strip and the effect of these stresses on torsional stiffness have been considered by Timoshenko (Ref. 5), Green (Ref. 6), Cook and Young (Ref. 1), and others. The following formulas apply to this case: Let $2a =$ width of strip; $2b =$ thickness of strip; $\tau$, $\sigma_t$, and $\sigma_c =$ maximum shear, maximum tensile, and maximum compressive stress due to twisting, respectively; $T =$ applied twisting moment; and $\theta/l =$ angle of twist per unit length. Then

$$
\sigma_t = \frac{E\tau^2}{12G^2}\left(\frac{a}{b}\right)^2
\tag{10.4-1}
$$

$$
\sigma_c = \frac{1}{2}\sigma_t
\tag{10.4-2}
$$

$$
T = KG\frac{\theta}{l} + \frac{8}{45}E\left(\frac{\theta}{l}\right)^3 ba^5
\tag{10.4-3}
$$

The first term on the right side of Eq. (10.4-3), $KG\theta/l$, represents the part of the total applied torque $T$ that is resisted by torsional shear; the second term represents the part that is resisted by the tensile stresses in the (helical) longitudinal fibers. It can be seen that this second part is small for small angles of twist but increases rapidly as $\theta/l$ increases.

To find the stresses produced by a given torque $T$, first the value of $\theta/l$ is found by Eq. (10.4-3), taking $K$ as given for Table 10.1, case 4. Then $\tau$ is found by the stress formula for case 4, taking $KG\theta/l$ for the