# Formulas for Stress and Strain

application of this would be the situation where one end of a cylindrical shell is forced to increase a known amount in radius while maintaining zero slope at that same end. This reduces to an application of an externally created concentrated lateral displacement $\Delta_0$ at $a = 0$ (Table 8.5, case 6) with the left end fixed. (See Example 4.)

Pao (Ref. 60) has tabulated influence coefficients for short cylindrical shells under edge loads with wall thicknesses varying according to $t = Cx^n$ for values of $n = \frac{1}{4}\left(\frac{1}{4}\right)(2)$ and for values of $t_1/t_2$ of 2, 3, and 4. Various degrees of taper are considered by representing data for $k = 0.2(0.2)(1.0)$ where $k^4 = 3(1 - \nu^2)x_1^4/R^2t_1^2$. Stanek (Ref. 49) has tabulated similar coefficients for constant-thickness cylindrical shells.

A word of caution is in order at this point. The original differential equations used to develop the formulas presented in Table 13.2 were based on the assumption that radial deformations were small. If the magnitude of the radial deflection approaches the wall thickness, the accuracy of the equations declines. In addition, if axial loads are involved on a relatively short shell, the moments of these axial loads might have an appreciable effect if large deflections are encountered. The effects of these moments are not included in the expressions given.

## EXAMPLES

### 1.

A steel tube with a 4.180-in outside diameter and a 0.05-in wall thickness is free at both ends and is 6 in long. At a distance of 2 in from the left end a steel ring with a circular cross section is shrunk onto the outside of the tube such as to compress the tube radially inward a distance of 0.001 in. The maximum tensile stress in the tube is desired. Given: $E = 30(10^6)\,\text{lb/in}^2$ and $\nu = 0.30$.

**Solution.** We calculate the following constants:

$$
R = 2.090 - 0.025 = 2.065
$$

$$
\lambda = \left[\frac{3(1 - 0.3^2)}{2.065^2(0.05^2)}\right]^{1/4} = 4.00
$$

$$
D = \frac{30(10^6)(0.05^3)}{12(1 - 0.3^2)} = 344
$$

Since $6/\lambda = 6/4.0 = 1.5$ in and the closest end of the tube is 2 in from the load, this can be considered a very long tube. From Table 13.2, case 15 indicates that both the maximum deflection and the maximum moment are under the load, so that

$$
-0.001 = \frac{-p}{8(344)(4.00^3)}
\qquad \text{or} \qquad
p = 176\ \text{lb/in}
$$

$$
M_{\max} = \frac{176}{4(4)} = 11.0\ \text{in-lb/in}
$$
