# Formulas for Stress and Strain

and

$$
[\sigma]_{x'y'}=
\begin{bmatrix}
\sigma_{x'} & \tau_{x'y'} \\
\tau_{x'y'} & \sigma_{y'}
\end{bmatrix}
\qquad (2.3\text{-}14)
$$

Since the plane stress matrices are $2 \times 2$, the transformation matrix and its transpose are written as

$$
[T]=
\begin{bmatrix}
\cos \theta & \sin \theta \\
-\sin \theta & \cos \theta
\end{bmatrix},
\qquad
[T]^T=
\begin{bmatrix}
\cos \theta & -\sin \theta \\
\sin \theta & \cos \theta
\end{bmatrix}
\qquad (2.3\text{-}15)
$$

Equations (2.3-13)--(2.3-15) can then be substituted into Eq. (2.3-8) to perform the desired transformation. The results, written in long-hand form, would be

$$
\sigma_{x'}=\sigma_x \cos^2 \theta + \sigma_y \sin^2 \theta + 2\tau_{xy}\cos \theta \sin \theta
$$

$$
\sigma_{y'}=\sigma_x \sin^2 \theta + \sigma_y \cos^2 \theta - 2\tau_{xy}\cos \theta \sin \theta
$$

$$
\tau_{x'y'}=-(\sigma_x-\sigma_y)\sin \theta \cos \theta + \tau_{xy}(\cos^2 \theta-\sin^2 \theta)
\qquad (2.3\text{-}16)
$$

If the state of stress is desired on a single surface with a normal rotated $\theta$ counterclockwise from the $x$ axis, the first and third equations of Eqs. (2.3-16) can be used as given. However, using trigonometric identities, the equations can be written in slightly different form. Letting $\sigma$ and $\tau$ represent the desired normal and shear stresses on the surface, the equations are

$$
\sigma=\frac{\sigma_x+\sigma_y}{2}+\frac{\sigma_x-\sigma_y}{2}\cos 2\theta+\tau_{xy}\sin 2\theta
$$

$$
\tau=-\frac{\sigma_x-\sigma_y}{2}\sin 2\theta+\tau_{xy}\cos 2\theta
\qquad (2.3\text{-}17)
$$

Equations (2.3-17) represent a set of parametric equations of a circle in the $\sigma\tau$ plane. This circle is commonly referred to as *Mohr's circle* and is generally discussed in standard mechanics of materials textbooks. This serves primarily as a teaching tool and adds little to applications, so it will not be represented here (see Ref. 1).

**Principal Stresses.** In general, maximum and minimum values of the normal stresses occur on surfaces where the shear stresses are zero. These stresses, which are actually the eigenvalues of the stress matrix, are called the *principal stresses*. Three principal stresses exist, $\sigma_1$, $\sigma_2$, and $\sigma_3$, where they are commonly ordered as $\sigma_1 \geq \sigma_2 \geq \sigma_3$.