ADIABATIC COMPRESSIBLE FLOW WITH FRICTION: IDEAL EQUATION 41

used, which will check for choking in the valve. If the equations given above are used to write a computer program running under the Microsoft Windows operating system, that program and the valve program may be run concurrently. The user may switch back and forth between both programs by pressing Alt+Tab, thereby avoiding having to reenter much of the same data in the compressible flow pressure drop program when switching back to it.

If such a program is unavailable to the user, it is very important to consider area reductions and increases within the valve where choking may occur. Such choking can have a profound effect on the energy losses within the valve.

## 4.3.2 Using Static Pressure and Temperature as Parameters

Richard Turton [2] gives the following equations:

$$
f\frac{L}{D}=\frac{\gamma-1}{2\gamma}\left(\frac{P_1^2T_2^2-P_2^2T_1^2}{T_2-T_1}\right)\left(\frac{1}{P_1^2T_2}-\frac{1}{P_2^2T_1}\right)-\frac{\gamma+1}{\gamma}\ln\frac{P_1T_2}{P_2T_1},
$$
(4.24)

$$
G=\sqrt{\frac{2\gamma}{\gamma-1}\frac{gP_1^2P_2^2m}{z\overline{R}}\left(\frac{T_2-T_1}{P_2^2T_1^2-P_1^2T_2^2}\right)},
$$
(4.25)

where  
$f$ = Darcy friction factor,  
$L$ = duct length, ft or m,  
$D$ = duct diameter, ft or m,  
$\gamma$ = gas ratio of specific heats, dimensionless,  
$P_1$ = duct stretch inlet static pressure, lb/ft$^2$ or N/m$^2$,  
$P_2$ = duct stretch outlet static pressure, lb/ft$^2$ or N/m$^2$,  
$T_1$ = duct stretch inlet static temperature, °R or °K,  
$T_2$ = duct stretch outlet static temperature, °R or °K,  
$m$ = molecular weight of flowing gas, lb/mol$_{lb}$ or kg/ mol$_{kg}$,  
$G$ = gas weight velocity, lb/s-ft$^2$ or gas mass velocity kg/s-m$^2$,  
$g$ = acceleration of gravity, ft/sec$^2$, *used for English units only*,  
$z$ = gas compressibility factor, dimensionless, and  
$\overline{R}$ = universal gas constant, ft-lb/mol$_{lb}$-°R or N-m/ mol$_{kg}$-°K.

(As in Eq. 4.16, $fL/D$ may be called $K$. The equation for $G$ in the reference lacks $g$ and $z$. The $g$ is added to obtain dimensional homogeneity *when using English units*, and the $z$ is added to account for real gas density.)

In Turton's equations, it is imperative to observe that area is constant, and that $P$ is static absolute pressure, and $T$ is static absolute temperature. *A consistent set of units must be used, either USCS or SI.* The gas flow cannot be choked unless it is at the end of the duct.

The friction factor in Equation 4.24 is assumed to be constant along the length of the pipe, which is tantamount to assuming fully developed turbulent flow throughout, and constant fluid viscosity. Because of these assumptions, the average $f$ should be used. Solution of these equations may be accomplished provided sufficient input data are available.

The most likely potential variables are $P_1$ and $T_1$, $P_2$ and $T_2$, $G$, and $f$. Length and diameter of the duct could be variables, but probably will be specified in the design problem. A typical problem might be solved by estimating $f$, solving Equation 4.24 for the unknown value (usually $T_2$), then solving Equation 4.25 for flow rate $G$. (The weight or mass flow rate may be found by multiplying $G$ by the duct area.) Then the estimate of $f$ can be checked; if it is different from the assumed $f$, the procedure should be repeated. Since the dependence of $f$ on $G$ is usually quite weak, the iterative procedure will converge rapidly.

Because Equation 4.24 cannot be solved explicitly, it must be solved using a trial-and-error method. (See Street et al.'s Mach number-based equation [Section 4.3]). The solution, however, can be considerably more difficult than that for Equation 4.16. While Equation 4.16 ordinarily has one unknown variable, Equation 4.24 can have two—for instance, $P_2$ and $T_2$ if $P_1$ and $T_1$ are known (or $P_1$ and $T_1$ if $P_2$ and $T_2$ are known). However, the equation is given for the situation where $P_1$ and $P_2$ are known, so that the only unknown variable is $T_2$. (You may refer to Appendix E, Section E.1.2 for a solution technique using a computer program for a similar problem that can be adapted to this one.) Because Turton's equation and Street et al.'s equation can be equated, and both accurately model the same phenomenon, with the same input data, the results must be the same (and are). The same warnings are valid: for instance, Mach number at the outlet cannot exceed unity, and there may be no solution because the chosen variables result in a supersonic velocity at the outlet. If the inlet and outlet static values of pressure and/or temperature are not known in every instance while the total values are, the equations given for the relationships between static and total values can be used in the trial-and-error solution process. For solution by spreadsheet, see the suggested method in Section 4.5 below. When two unknowns exist, multiple solutions can be plotted to help solve the final variable.

Where the adiabatic compressible flow negotiates a change in area, the formulas above do not apply. This eventuality may be treated as discussed in Section