# APPENDIX D

## COMPRESSIBILITY FACTOR EQUATIONS

### D.1 THE REDLICH–KWONG EQUATION

The Redlich-Kwong equation is actually an equation of state. It was formulated by Otto Redlich and Joseph N. S. Kwong in 1949 [*Chemical Review*, 44, 1949, 233-244]. Their equation is

$$
P = \frac{n\bar{R}T}{V-b} - \frac{a}{V(V+b)\sqrt{T}},
$$

$$
a = \frac{\Omega_a (n\bar{R})^2 T_c^{2.5}}{P_c},
$$

$$
b = \frac{\Omega_b n\bar{R}T_c}{P_c},
$$

where $T_c$ and $P_c$ are the critical temperature and pressure of the gas being considered. The constants in the equation are derived as

$$
\Omega_a = [(9)(2)^{1/3}-1]^{-1} = 0.42748,
$$

$$
\Omega_b = [(2)^{1/3}-1]/3 = 0.08664.
$$

This equation is quite accurate at the critical temperature for $P/P_c = 4$ to 40 (error $< 2.5\%$). At higher temperatures and at $P/P_c$ above about 5 the equation becomes increasingly inaccurate.

The compressibility factor may be found explicitly from the Redlich-Kwong equation. It is the principal root of a cubic. Robert C. Reid, John M. Prausnitz, and Thomas K. Sherwood [*The Properties of Gases and Liquids*, 3$^{rd}$ Ed., McGraw-Hill Book Company, 1977] give the cubic as

$$
z^3 - z^2 + (A* - B*^2 - B*)z - A*B* = 0,
$$

where

$$
A* = \frac{\Omega_a P_r}{T_r^{5/2}} = 0.42748 \frac{P_r}{T_r^{5/2}},
$$

$$
B* = \frac{\Omega_b P_r}{T_r} = 0.086640 \frac{P_r}{T_r}.
$$

In the equations below, $P_r$ is the reduced pressure (that is, the ratio of actual pressure to critical pressure), and $T_r$ is the reduced temperature (that is, the ratio of actual temperature to critical temperature). Let $A, B, C, D,$ and $E$ be constants defined by

$$
A = 0.08664 \frac{P_r}{T_r},
$$

$$
B = \frac{4.9340}{T_r^{3/2}},
$$

$$
C = A^2 + A - AB,
$$

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

263