Inverting and squaring both sides gives:

$$(K/A^2)_{\text{Overall}}=
\left[
\frac{1}{
\frac{1}{\sqrt{(K/A^2)_1}}+\frac{1}{\sqrt{(K/A^2)_2}}+\ldots+\frac{1}{\sqrt{(K/A^2)_N}}
}
\right]^2.
\qquad (5.9)$$

Equation 5.9 is the general equation for pressure loss of pipe sections in parallel. If the individual loss coefficients are based on one common reference area, the overall loss coefficient is:

$$K_{\text{Overall}}=
\left[
\frac{1}{
\frac{1}{\sqrt{K_1}}+\frac{1}{\sqrt{K_2}}+\ldots+\frac{1}{\sqrt{K_N}}
}
\right]^2.$$

If all individual loss coefficients for each pipe section are equal to the same $K$, the overall loss coefficient is simply:

$$K_{\text{Overall}}=\frac{K}{N^2}.$$

The individual flow rates for each pipe section may be determined as:

$$\dot{w}_1=\dot{w}_{\text{Total}}\sqrt{\frac{(K/A^2)_{\text{Overall}}}{(K/A^2)_1}},\;
\dot{w}_2=\dot{w}_{\text{Total}}\sqrt{\frac{(K/A^2)_{\text{Overall}}}{(K/A^2)_2}},\ldots,$$

$$\dot{w}_N\sqrt{\frac{(K/A^2)_{\text{Overall}}}{(K/A^2)_N}}.$$

If the individual loss coefficients for each pipe section are based on one common reference area, the flow rates are:

$$\dot{w}_1=\dot{w}_{\text{Total}}\sqrt{\frac{K_{\text{Overall}}}{K_1}},\;
\dot{w}_2=\dot{w}_{\text{Total}}\sqrt{\frac{K_{\text{Overall}}}{K_2}},\ldots,$$

$$\dot{w}_N=\dot{w}_{\text{Total}}\sqrt{\frac{K_{\text{Overall}}}{K_N}}.$$

Finally, if all section loss coefficients are equal, the flow rates are simply:

$$\dot{w}_1=\dot{w}_2=\ldots=\dot{w}_N=\frac{\dot{w}_{\text{Total}}}{N}.$$

# 5.4 BRANCHING FLOW

A *branching network* is basically a number of piping sections combined in various series and parallel arrangements, but the branches do not necessarily come together again. Simple branching networks can often be solved by applying the methods given in Sections 5.2 and 5.3 for series and parallel flow. When the number of branches is large, the solution involves careful set up of the governing equations, and requires the aid of a computer program.

The solution of branching flow problems requires the application of *conservation of mass* and *conservation of energy* principles. In short, continuity and energy equations are set up to produce an arrangement of simultaneous equations that can be solved to calculate pressures and flow rates within the branching network.

The key step in setting up a particular branching flow problem is to create a flow schematic or an isometric diagram depicting the network. From this all flow junctions and terminal energy points can be identified and labeled; these points are called *nodes*. For diverging and converging flow junctions (tees), locate the node in the common channel. Indicate a flow direction for every branch, and identify and label its flow rate. If flow direction is uncertain and you are using a computer program for solution, enter the energy equation in the form of $P_A=P_B+CK\dot{w}|\dot{w}|$, where $|\dot{w}|$ is the absolute value of flow rate.

Complex branching flow problems require the simultaneous solution of a number of continuity and energy equations. Several general-purpose computational software programs can easily solve simultaneous equations. Spreadsheets, however, require complicated macros to solve a complex flow network and experience has shown that errors are prevalent. Consequently, if a spreadsheet is used, the solution should be carefully checked to show that it is in fact a correct solution.

Virtually all branching network problems can be solved using the methodology presented in this chapter. The possible arrangement of network flow problems is infinite. Two example problems are presented herein to illustrate the setup and solution of branching flow networks.

# 5.5 EXAMPLE PROBLEM: RING SPARGER

A ring sparger, as shown in Figure 5.1, is located above the test bay of a liquid rocket engine test stand to provide a shower of water in the event of a leak of rocket propellant or in the event of a fire. The sparger consists of two arm sections (headers) formed of 6" steel