42 COMPRESSIBLE FLOW

### 4.3.1.5, “Treating Changes in Area.” For those wishing to work with static pressures as in Turton’s formula above, a formula relating area change with pressure change for isentropic flow (reversible adiabatic flow) in terms of static pressures follows:

$$
\dot{w} = A_2 \sqrt{\frac{2g\gamma P_1[(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}-(P_2/P_1)^{(\gamma+1)/\gamma}]}{v_1(\gamma-1)[1-(A_2/A_1)^2(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}]}} \text{ (for English),}
$$

$$
\dot{m} = A_2 \sqrt{\frac{2\gamma P_1[(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}-(P_2/P_1)^{(\gamma+1)/\gamma}]}{v_1(\gamma-1)[1-(A_2/A_1)^2(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}]}} \text{ (for SI),}
$$

where

$\dot{w}$ = weight flow rate, lb/s, *for English units*,

$\dot{m}$ = mass flow rate, kg/s, *for SI units*,

$A_1$ = inlet area, ft$^2$ or m$^2$,

$A_2$ = outlet area, ft$^2$ or m$^2$,

$g$ = acceleration of gravity, ft/s$^2$, *used for English units only*,

$P_1$ = inlet static pressure, lb/ft$^2$ or N/m$^2$,

$P_2$ = outlet static pressure lb/ft$^2$ or N/m$^2$,

$\gamma$ = ratio of specific heats (dimensionless), and

$v_1$ = inlet specific volume, ft$^3$/lb or m$^3$/kg.

This formula will give the pressure change across an area change for *isentropic flow*—that is, with no flow losses. This is equivalent to assuming that the total pressure downstream of the area change is the same as that upstream. To account for the head loss in the area change, add a length of pipe to the upstream or downstream pipe (preferably the smaller pipe), which has a $K$ (i.e., $fL/D$) equal to the $K$ of the fitting with the head loss.

It may be noted that the equation given above cannot be solved explicitly. However, if a computer program is not available to execute the recommendations given in Section 4.3.1.5 above, the equation can be solved by a trial-and-error technique described below.

Rearrange the equation by squaring and factoring out the known constants:

$$
\frac{\dot{w}^2 v_1(\gamma-1)}{2g\gamma P_1 A_2^2} = \frac{[(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}-(P_2/P_1)^{(\gamma+1)/\gamma}]}{[1-(A_2/A_1)^2(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}]} \text{ (for English),}
$$

$$
\frac{\dot{m}^2 v_1(\gamma-1)}{2\gamma P_1 A_2^2} = \frac{[(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}-(P_2/P_1)^{(\gamma+1)/\gamma}]}{[1-(A_2/A_1)^2(P_2/P_1)^{2/\gamma}]} \text{ (for SI).}
$$

The group of known constants on the left side of the equation must be evaluated for comparison with the trial evaluation of the group on the right side of the equation. Separate evaluation of $(A_2/A_1)^2$, $2/\gamma$ and $(\gamma+1)/\gamma$ will also aid in the solution. Using a spreadsheet, the right-hand group may be easily evaluated and the value of the left-hand group subtracted from it. Evaluation with a complete range of possible pressure ratios is recommended, as $0.1 \leq P_2/P_1 \leq 1.0$. The calculated difference will in all probability bracket the final solution, which is when the calculated difference is zero. Another set of solutions with a very restricted range about zero may then be evaluated, which will show a good approximation of the correct value of $P_2/P_1$. A chart may be constructed in the spreadsheet to help visualize this value. Then an additional single line of calculation may be used to try, by experimental adjustment of $P_2/P_1$, to get a difference in the two sides of the equation as close to zero as possible, say $1 \times 10^{-4}$ or less. When this is attained, a very nearly correct solution of $P_2/P_1$ will be revealed—closer than the precision of the calculated values. Knowing this will allow proceeding with solution of the pressure drop in the next section of pipe with the different area. If the value of $P_2/P_1$ is close to 1 then the value of $K_2$ of the area change fitting may be calculated from:

$$
K_2 \approx K_1 \left(\frac{A_2}{A_1}\right)^2.
$$

## 4.4 ISOTHERMAL COMPRESSIBLE FLOW WITH FRICTION: IDEAL EQUATION

To obtain isothermal flow in a pipe the heat transferred out of the fluid through the pipe walls and the energy converted into heat by the friction process must be adjusted so that the temperature remains constant. Such an adjustment is approximated naturally in uninsulated pipes where velocities are low (well below the sonic) and where temperatures inside and outside the pipe are of the same order. Often the flow of gases in long pipelines may be treated isothermally.

Street et al. [1] give the following equation for isothermal compressible flow in a constant-area duct:

$$
P_1^2 - P_2^2 = \frac{\dot{w}^2}{g}\frac{RT}{A^2}\left(2\ln\frac{P_1}{P_2} + f\frac{L}{D}\right) \text{ (for English),}
$$

(4.26a)

$$
P_1^2 - P_2^2 = \frac{\dot{m}^2RT}{A^2}\left(2\ln\frac{P_1}{P_2} + f\frac{L}{D}\right) \text{ (for SI),}
$$

(4.26b)

and