# 8

# SURFACE FRICTION

The gradual process leading to understanding and quantifying surface friction was presented in Chapter 3. Surface friction and its main element, friction factor, are further considered in this chapter as an adjunct to quantifying the various features that contribute to head loss.

The loss coefficient due to surface friction (analogous to the loss coefficient due to local loss) is expressed as:

$$
K = f \frac{L}{D}.
$$

(1.3, repeated)

Thus the product of the friction factor $f$ and the geometric factor $L/D$ (or $l/d$) represents the number of velocity heads lost due to surface friction. The friction factor under discussion here is that corresponding to fully developed velocity profiles that are encountered only after 20 or more pipe diameters downstream of a pipe inlet or other major disturbance. In practice, this condition is rarely met. However, satisfactory results are generally obtained ignoring this limitation.

## 8.1 FRICTION FACTOR

The relationship of friction factor to the Reynolds number and surface roughness has three distinct differing regions of application.

### 8.1.1 Laminar Flow Region

As identified in Chapter 3, an expression for laminar flow friction factor was developed by the mid-1800s:

$$
f = \frac{64}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}}.
$$

(3.3, repeated)

Note that $f$ is a function of the pipe Reynolds number only. Protrusions on the pipe surface do not cause turbulence in laminar flow. For laminar flow, pipes of different surface roughness have the same friction factor for the same Reynolds number.

The upper range of Reynolds number for laminar flow is somewhat indefinite, being dependent upon several incidental conditions, and may be as high as 4000. However, such high values are of little practical interest, and the engineer may take the upper limit of laminar flow to be defined by a Reynolds number of 2100.

### 8.1.2 Critical Zone

For pipe Reynolds numbers between 2100 and 3000 to 4000, the friction factor can have large uncertainties and is highly indeterminate. Hence this region is called the *critical zone*. The flow in this zone may be laminar or turbulent (or an unsteady mix of both) depending on the pipe entrance, initial disturbances, and pipe roughness. This transition region from laminar to turbulent flow is accompanied by a considerable increase in friction factor, and thereby in pressure drop in the pipe. As a rule, however, pipes flowing significant amounts of fluid, and which have measurable pressure loss, have a Reynolds number much greater than 3000 or 4000. Notwithstanding, the engineer may on occasion have to

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

77