# 4

# COMPRESSIBLE FLOW

This chapter deals with finding the pressure drop in ducts flowing a compressible fluid. Six methods of finding the pressure drop are offered, ranging from approximate methods of varying accuracy to analytical methods with absolute accuracy within the assumptions made. Units used are mainly English gravitational units, but International System (SI) units can be substituted if dimensional homogeneity is maintained. (English gravitational units use lb$_f$, ft, and s as basic. This system is very nearly the same as the United States customary system (USCS) units, which use slug, ft, and s as basic. In either the USCS system or the English gravitational system, lb$_f$ = slugs $\times$ $g$, where $g$ is the acceleration of gravity in ft/s$^2$.)

## 4.1 PROBLEM SOLUTION METHODS

As pointed out in Chapter 2, in incompressible flow without heat exchanger input or output the thermal terms may be equated to head loss. In compressible flow, however, such is not the case because there are significant conversions of heat energy to mechanical energy. Some methods for finding the pressure loss for a compressible fluid flowing in a duct are given below. Horizontal ducts are considered because the density of the flowing compressible fluid is usually low enough to neglect its effect on static pressure with modest changes in elevation.

It should be noted that each of the methods outlined below require the flow path to have a *constant cross-sectional area*. Procedures are given in Section 4.3.1.5 or at the end of Section 4.3.2 on how to handle changes in cross-sectional area.

Compressible flow may be treated in six principal fashions:

1. If the pressure drop is small compared to the system pressure, variation in flowing fluid density with changing system pressure may be ignored and the pressure drop found by incompressible flow formulas. This technique works well for pressure drops below about 10% of the inlet pressure, and it works for either isothermal flow or adiabatic flow. The formula is given in Section 4.2.1 below.
2. For pressure drops up to about 40% of the inlet pressure, and for resistance coefficient $K = 10$ or greater (or for smaller drops if $K$ is smaller), incompressible flow formulas work fairly well if the fluid properties are determined at the average of inlet and outlet conditions. This also works with isothermal or adiabatic flow. The formula for this method is given early in Section 4.2.2 below, with an error chart for the adiabatic case.
3. For pressure drops up to about 40% of the inlet pressure, and for resistance coefficient $K = 6$ or greater, incompressible formulas work fairly well if the inlet and outlet pressures and their average are used in determining the pressure drop. This method is similar to the average properties method described above but takes more into account to

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

31