58 NETWORK ANALYSIS

$$
p_3 = p_4 + \frac{3 \cdot K_{LREll10} + f_{12}\frac{L_{3,4}}{d_{12}/12}}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho_w \cdot A_{12}^2}\,\dot{w}_{Pump}^2,
\qquad (5)
$$

$$
p_4 = p_5 + \frac{1.62 - 0.98\frac{\dot{w}_{Pump}}{\dot{w}_{Inject}} - 0.64\frac{\dot{w}_{Pump}^2}{\dot{w}_{Inject}^2} + 0.03\frac{\dot{w}_{Inject}^6}{\dot{w}_{Pump}^6}}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho_w \cdot A_{10}^2}\dot{w}_{Inject}^2 +
$$

$$
\frac{K_{FlowNoz} + K_{Valve10} + 2 \cdot K_{CkVakve} + 6 \cdot K_{LREll12} + f_{10}\frac{L_{4,5}}{d_{10}/12}}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho_w \cdot A_{10}^2}\dot{w}_{Inject}^2 +
$$

$$
\frac{\rho_w}{144}(Elev_5 - Elev_2),
\qquad (6)
$$

$$
p_5 = p_6 + \frac{1.59\frac{\dot{w}_{Inject}^2}{\dot{w}_{Sparger}^2} + (1.18 - 1.84\sqrt{rd} + 1.16rd)\frac{\dot{w}_{Inject}}{\dot{w}_{Sparger}} - 1.68 + 1.04\sqrt{rd} - 1.16rd}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho_w \cdot A_8^2}\dot{w}_{Sparger}^2,
\qquad (7)
$$

$$
p_6 = p_7 + \frac{K_{SREll6} + f_6\frac{L_{6,7}}{d_6/12} + 1 - \frac{A6^2}{A8^2}}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho_w \cdot A_6^2}\dot{w}_{Sparger}^2,
\qquad (8)
$$

$$
p_7 = p_8 + \frac{K_{Sparger}}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho_w \cdot A_6^2}\dot{w}_{Sparger}^2,
\qquad (9)
$$

$$
p_4 = p_1 + \frac{\left(0.81 - 1.13\frac{\dot{w}_{Pump}}{\dot{w}_{Bypass}}\right)\frac{d_3^4}{d_{12}^4} + 1.00 + 1.12\frac{d_3^3}{d_1^3} - 1.08\frac{d_3^3}{d_1^3} + K_{9.3}}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho \cdot A_3^2}\dot{w}_{Bypass}^2 +
$$

$$
\frac{K_{Orifice} + K_{Valve3} + 4 \cdot K_{LREll3} + K_{Exit} + f_3\frac{L_{4,1}}{d_3/12}}{288 \cdot g \cdot \rho \cdot A_3^2}\dot{w}_{Bypass}^2 + \frac{\rho}{144}(Elev_1 - Elev_2).
\qquad (10)
$$

### 5.6.1.6 Solution

There are 10 equations and 10 unknowns $(p_2, p_3, p_4, p_5, p_6, p_7, \dot{w}_{Pump}, \dot{w}_{Inject}, \dot{w}_{Sparger}$ and $\dot{w}_{Bypass})$. A general-purpose computational software program was used to perform the simultaneous solution of equations 1 through 10. After initial solution, Reynolds number was calculated for each pipe section. Pipe friction factors, and elbow loss coefficients, were adjusted accordingly and the solution was repeated to improve the accuracy of the results. The following three cases were investigated:

1. Initial operation of the core spray system was simulated by opening the bypass line valve $(K_{Valve3} = 0.20)$ and closing the injection line valve $(K_{Valve10} = 10^{12})$. For this valve lineup, bypass flow rate of 624 gpm exceeded 15% of rated core spray flow.
2. The bypass valve remained open $(K_{Valve3} = 0.20)$, the injection valve was opened $(K_{Valve10} = 0.20)$, and vessel pressure was progressively decreased from 120 to 14.7 psia to simulate core spray injection during the postulated LOCA.
3. In this case, the bypass valve was closed $(K_{Valve3} = 10^{10})$, the injection valve was opened $(K_{Valve10} = 0.20)$, and vessel pressure was progressively decreased from 120 to 14.7 psia to simulate core spray injection during the postulated LOCA.

Calculated flow rates are shown in Table 5.3. Core spray injection flow rate as a function of vessel pressure is shown in Figure 15.5.

The calculated results show that the core spray system will indeed deliver at least 4000 gpm of cooling water to the top of the reactor core during the postulated LOCA event with the bypass valve open. Closing the bypass valve will increase injection flow by over 300 gpm.

Net positive suction head (NPSH), another important aspect of core spray system performance, is evaluated as an example problem in Chapter 20.

## 5.6.2 Moderately Corroded Steel Pipe

Calculate core spray system flow rate assuming moderately corroded steel pipe. The analysis is basically the same as for new, clean steel pipe except as indicated below.

### 5.6.2.1 Ground Rules and Assumptions

- The absolute roughness $e$ of the pipe is equal to 0.0130 in.*
- The remaining ground rules and assumption are the same as above for new, clean steel pipe.

### 5.6.2.2 Input Parameters

No changes are necessary.

\* In practice, core spray system piping is kept full with demineralized water. It is a closed system so that original oxygen content is soon depleted. In addition, surveillance tests are performed periodically. Assuming that the absolute roughness increases to 0.0130 in is very conservative.