# 18

# VALVES

A valve is a device that regulates the flow of a fluid by opening, closing, or partially obstructing the passageway in which it is installed. In general, valves used for on–off purposes have full or slightly reduced ports and are of symmetrical, straightway design such as ball valves and most gate valves. Valves used for flow control or throttling normally have reduced ports and are usually of asymmetrical design such as globe or needle valves. Their attendant high resistance to flow, necessary for control or throttling purposes, makes them undesirable for strictly on–off application.

Many valves are operated manually—usually by a hand wheel. Devices called actuators may also operate valves. They can be electromechanical actuators such as an electric motor or solenoid, or a pneumatic actuator motorized by air pressure; or hydraulic actuators that are powered by the pressure of a liquid such as oil or water. Actuators can be used for the purpose of automatic control driven by changes in pressure, temperature, or flow. They may be used when manual control is too difficult; for example, the valve is too large, or is generally inaccessible. Valves that are used to control the supply of air or other fluid going to the actuators are called pilot valves.

Large-size valves are normally supplied with flanged or butt-weld end connections. Smaller-size valves are often supplied with socket-weld or threaded (screwed) end connections. Valves are rated for maximum temperature and pressure as well as for flow capacity by the manufacturer. In addition to the standard valve products, many valve manufacturers produce custom-designed valves and actuators for specific applications. Valves are available in a broad spectrum of sizes and materials. Each design has its own advantages, and the selection of the proper valve for a particular application is critical. In this chapter, we discuss the characteristics and uses of the various types of valves and examine their flow characteristics.

## 18.1 MULTITURN VALVES

The closure members of some types of valves are traditionally called gates, disks, wedges, plungers, and so on. A linear motion equal to the pipe diameter is generally needed to fully open and fully close these valves. The linear motion is usually provided by a number of turns of a screw mechanism. Thus, these valves are referred to as multiturn or linear motion valves.

### 18.1.1 Diaphragm Valve

Diaphragm valves (see Fig. 18.1) have three simple elements: the valve body, the diaphragm, and the bonnet. The diaphragm serves as the closing member as well as a partition to seal the body fluid from the bonnet region. This eliminates the need for conventional valve stem packing material. A plunger is lowered by the valve stem onto the diaphragm to force it against a “weir” or wall in the valve body to seal and cut off flow.

Diaphragm valves are relatively low in cost, have low pressure drops, and can be tightly closed. The flexible

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

205