# 1.3.3 Loss Coefficient

The loss coefficient, or resistance coefficient, is the measure of pressure drop in fluid systems. It is defined as:

$$
K = f \frac{L}{D},
$$

(1.3)

where:  
$K =$ loss coefficient measured in *velocity heads*,  
$f =$ Darcy friction factor,  
$L =$ length of pipe stretch for which the resistance coefficient applies, and  
$D =$ inside diameter of the pipe stretch.

More will be said about $f$ and $K$ in Chapters 3 and 8.

# 1.3.4 Mach Number

Named for the Czech physicist Ernst Mach (1838–1916), the Mach number is the ratio of the local fluid velocity $u$ to the acoustic velocity $A$. It is very useful in describing compressible flow phenomena. It is given by:

$$
M = \frac{u}{A}.
$$

(1.4a)

The average velocity $V$ is usually substituted when the flow is in a conduit and the velocity profile is fairly flat. With this convention, the equation becomes:

$$
M = \frac{V}{A}.
$$

(1.4b)

# 1.3.5 Froude Number

The *Froude number* $N_{\mathrm{Fr}}$ specifies the ratio of inertia force to gravity force on an element of fluid. It is named for William Froude, an English engineer and naval architect (1810–1879), who, in the later half of the nineteenth century, pioneered in the investigation of ship resistance by use of models. The Froude number is used in the investigation of similarity between ships and models of them. In this role, it is defined as the ratio of the velocity of a surface wave and the flow velocity. Our interest is in its application to pipe flow where the pipe is not flowing full. In this context it is expressed as:

$$
N_F = \frac{V}{\sqrt{gD}} = \frac{V}{\sqrt{2gR}},
$$

(1.5)

where $V$ is the characteristic velocity, $g$ is the acceleration of gravity, $D$ is the pipe diameter, and $R$ is the pipe radius. The Froude number, unlike the Reynolds number, is independent of viscosity and so it applies to inviscid flow analysis.

# 1.3.6 Reduced Pressure

Reduced pressure, along with reduced temperature (described below), is useful in quantifying departures from the ideal state in gases. Reduced pressure is given by:

$$
P_r = \frac{P}{P_c},
$$

where $P$ is the pressure of interest and $P_c$ is critical pressure.

# 1.3.7 Reduced Temperature

As with reduced pressure described above, reduced temperature helps to reduce the state point of most gases to a common base, making it possible to quantify departures of most gases from the ideal equation describing the relationship between pressure, temperature, volume, and quantity of substance (the equation of state, described below). Reduced temperature is given by:

$$
T_r = \frac{T}{T_c},
$$

where $T$ is the temperature of interest and $T_c$ is critical temperature.

# 1.4 EQUATIONS OF STATE

This section presents various equations which describe the physical properties of fluids—principally the fluid's density as a function of pressure and temperature.

## 1.4.1 Equation of State of Liquids

An “equation of state of liquids” is not commonly expressed. This is because in usual engineering fluid-flow problems, the volume properties of the liquid are scarcely affected by changes in temperature or pressure in the flow path. Where their properties are significantly affected it is customary (because it is easiest and sufficiently accurate) to break the problem into small enough segments wherein the properties may be considered to be constant. Where this approach is not satisfactory, as, for instance, when dealing with liquids at pressures above the critical pressure, equations of state of liquids are available in the literature. Attention is directed to the works by Reid et al. [2] and Poling et al. [3], produced a quarter-century apart, which reflect the growth in information available in the literature on this subject.