18 CONSERVATION EQUATIONS

## 2.4.5 Mechanical Work Energy

The mechanical work done on the fluid in the flow system by a pump and, as in the case of heat flux, the work done by the fluid in a turbine must be expressed in power units, or work per unit time, to maintain dimensional homogeneity in the energy equation. These units may be converted to potential energy units as they were in the case of heat flux (Eq. 2.10a and 2.10b):

$$
\frac{E_p}{\dot{w}}=\frac{\text{ft-lb/s}}{\text{lb/s}}=\frac{\text{ft-lb}}{\text{lb}}=\text{ft}
$$

$$
=\frac{\text{N-m/s}}{\text{N/s}}=\frac{\text{N-m}}{\text{N}}=\text{m}.
$$

The same conversion also applies to turbine work, $E_T$.

The mechanical work energy is often called “flow work,” because without flow there is no work performed. In the case of the pump, flow work is added to the flow, and in the case of the turbine, flow work is subtracted from the flow.

## 2.5 GENERAL ENERGY EQUATION

Having defined the energy fluxes in the hypothetical flow system in common units, we may now write the energy balance:

$$
\frac{P_1}{(\rho_w)_1}+\frac{\phi_1 V_1^2}{2g}+Z_1+JU_1+\frac{JQ_1}{\dot{w}}+\frac{E_p}{\dot{w}}
$$

$$
=\frac{P_2}{(\rho_w)_2}+\frac{\phi_2 V_2^2}{2g}+Z_2+JU_2+\frac{JQ_2}{\dot{w}}+\frac{E_T}{\dot{w}}.
\qquad (2.11a)
$$

Equation 2.11a is set up for weight units in either the English gravitational system (where $\text{lb}_f$ is basic) or SI (where the kilogram mass is basic) but using newtons as the force unit. For SI in mass units, the equation is:

$$
\frac{P_1}{(\rho_m)_1 g}+\frac{\phi_1 V_1^2}{2g}+Z_1+\frac{JU_1}{g}+\frac{JQ_1}{\dot{m}g}+\frac{E_p}{\dot{m}g}
$$

$$
=\frac{P_2}{(\rho_m)_2 g}+\frac{\phi_2 V_2^2}{2g}+Z_2+\frac{JU_2}{g}+\frac{JQ_2}{\dot{m}g}+\frac{E_T}{\dot{m}g}.
\qquad (2.11b)
$$

As shown in Chapter 1, the units of $\rho_m$, $m$, and $\dot{m}$ are changed to force units when multiplied by $g$, and this entity may not be easily recognized by the user. For this reason a conversion factor called $C_g$ may be inserted into the conversion to change the name of the entity. This factor for SI is N/(m/s$^2$)/(kg), and if you call it “$C_g$,” Equation 1.1 becomes:

$$
F\ \text{Newtons} = [C_g\ \text{N}/(\text{m/s}^2/\text{kg})][m\ \text{kg} \times a(\text{m/s}^2)].
$$

With this convention, each term in the SI General Energy Equation has the units of meters.

Other forms of energy, such as chemical, electric, or atomic, may need reckoning in a particular flow problem. Their inclusion should present no difficulties if they are treated as the five forms shown here have been.

The first three terms on each side of Equation 2.11a and 2.11b are called the Bernoulli terms, after Swiss mathematician Daniel Bernoulli (1700–1782), and are referred to as heads—$P/\rho$ is called the pressure head, $\phi V^2/2g$ is called the velocity head, and $Z$ is called the elevation or potential head.

## 2.6 HEAD LOSS

The general energy equation as given above (Eq. 2.11a and 2.11b) is valid for any real fluid. There is, however, an observation that should be made here. Consider the most elementary flow system: a horizontal pipe of constant cross section, without pump or turbine, and without external heat transfer, carrying a fluid from one end to the other. Let us also assume that changes of fluid pressure or temperature do not affect the fluid density during its passage through the flow system. (This kind of flow is called incompressible flow and it is very closely approximated by the flow of most liquids.) By the continuity equation (Eq. 2.2a and 2.2b), the average velocity does not change; therefore the $\phi V^2/2g$ terms are equal on both sides of Equation 2.11 and may be dropped. The elevation does not change from one side of the equation to the other, so the $Z$ terms may be dropped. Without pump or turbine work the $E/\dot{w}$ terms may be dropped. Without external transferred heat the $JQ/\dot{w}$ terms may be dropped. This leaves only the $P/\rho$ terms and the $JU$ terms. Collect the $JU$ terms and lump them into one term called $\Delta JU$; the resulting equation is:

$$
\frac{P_1}{\rho_1}-\frac{P_2}{\rho_2}=\Delta JU.
$$

Again, as in Equation 2.11, $\rho$ is either $\rho_w$ or $\rho_m$, depending on the units chosen. The pressure head change is equal to the thermal energy term, $\Delta JU$! In this illustration, we could have included the other Bernoulli or head terms and shown that $\Delta JU$ is equal to the change in total head. Appropriately enough, the change is called *head loss*, or $H_L$. In the general energy equation, where there is external heat transfer, only a portion of $\Delta JU$ is owing to head loss. But since we have observed that in incompressible flow the thermal terms usually do not affect the fluid density appreciably, we may drop the thermal terms altogether except for the portion that