# 3

# INCOMPRESSIBLE FLOW

This chapter will explore kinds of flow, such as laminar and turbulent, the development of understanding of pressure losses in incompressible flow and the equations to describe them, and sources of pressure loss.

## 3.1 CONVENTIONAL HEAD LOSS

As was established in the previous chapter, if the fluid pressure and temperature do not appreciably affect the fluid density, the thermal terms of the general energy equation may be dropped, excepting one term called head loss ($H_L$). The head loss term designates the mechanical energy (embodied in the Bernoulli terms $P/\rho$, $\phi V^2/2g$, and $Z$) that is converted to thermal energy due to frictional resistance to flow. The resulting equation very closely describes the flow of most liquids. Further, when we neglect the kinetic energy correction factor, we obtain the conventional general energy equation:

$$
\frac{P_1}{(\rho_w)_1} + \frac{V_1^2}{2g} + Z_1 + \frac{E_P}{\dot{w}} = \frac{P_2}{(\rho_w)_2} + \frac{V_2^2}{2g} + Z_2 + \frac{E_T}{\dot{w}} + H_L.
$$

Now, for convenience and simplicity assume that the flow line is level so that $Z_1$ equals $Z_2$, and that there is no pump or turbine. Then the energy equation is simplified to:

$$
\frac{P_1}{(\rho_w)_1} + \frac{V_1^2}{2g} = \frac{P_2}{(\rho_w)_2} + \frac{V_2^2}{2g} + H_L
$$

or

$$
H_L = \frac{P_1}{(\rho_w)_1} - \frac{P_2}{(\rho_w)_2} + \frac{V_1^2 - V_2^2}{2g}.
$$

For ordinary liquids under ordinary conditions, as indicated above, change of specific weight is so modest for flow-induced temperature and pressure changes that $(\rho_w)_1$ may be equated to $(\rho_w)_2$. Making this simplification,

$$
H_L = \frac{P_1 - P_2}{\rho_w} + \frac{V_1^2 - V_2^2}{2g}.
\qquad (3.1)
$$

Remember that $H_L$ is a loss in the general energy equation; therefore, it represents a drop in the *Energy Grade Line*. Because there is no change in flow velocity when there is no change in flow area, this equation shows that pressure loss is directly proportional to head loss in a level constant area flow duct.

## 3.2 SOURCES OF HEAD LOSS

As was seen in Chapter 2, head loss amounts to a conversion of available mechanical energy to unavailable heat energy. Two principal sources of this conversion may be identified: (1) surface friction and (2) induced turbulence due to fittings and other changes in the flow path, such as valves.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

23