# 6

# TRANSIENT ANALYSIS

In the analysis of *unsteady flow*, or *transient flow*, processes, the *system* is abandoned in favor of a *control volume*. Attention is given to a fixed region in space, not to a fixed mass in motion. The control volume, defined by an imaginary closed boundary, is set up to surround the equipment under study. Both mass and energy may cross the boundary. Momentum or other properties may be involved, but herein we are considering only mass and energy. We are considering only *bulk flows*. Bulk flows are characterized by negligible *propagation effects*. Propagation effects can be thought of as “startup” effects where momentum or other properties play a role. They are generally of short duration. According to F. J. Moody [1]: “Propagation effects probably are not important in analyses when $t_p$ [*propagation time*] is less than about 0.1 $t_d$ [*bulk disturbance time*].”

In transient flow processes the principles of mass and energy conservation are of utmost importance. The rates at which mass and energy enter the control volume may not be the same as the rates of flow of mass and energy out of the control volume. Furthermore, the rates of flow may vary with time.

Transient analysis is a complex and wide-ranging topic. Books by F. J. Moody [1] and J. A. Fox [2] may be particularly helpful. There are many software programs that can solve a variety of hydraulic transient problems. The attempt here is to introduce the subject by describing the basic methodology and providing example problems that may be useful in their own right.

## 6.1 METHODOLOGY

It is virtually impossible to set up a completely general set of equations that suit all transient flow processes. Nonetheless, as a first step the control volume must be defined to fit the physical situation. From that, the instantaneous rate at which mass *enters* the control volume may be equated to those at which mass *leaves* the control volume and at which mass is *stored* within the control volume:

Total mass inflow rate = total mass outflow rate +  
total mass storage rate.

Similarly, the instantaneous rate at which energy *enters* the control volume may be equated to those at which energy *leaves* the control volume and at which energy is *stored* within the control volume:

Total energy inflow rate = total energy outflow rate +  
total energy storage rate.

Differential equations may be written from consideration of mass and energy principles to simulate the physical situation over a finite interval of time. It is convenient to choose a scheme in which the flow properties are continuous in space and time. Sometimes, however, fluid properties or physical arrangement may be discontinuous so that the problem must be split

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

61