## REFERENCES

1. Colebrook, C. F. and C. M. White, Experiments with fluid friction in roughened pipes, *Proceedings of the Royal Society of London*, 161, 1937, 367–381.

2. Colebrook, C. F., Turbulent flow in pipes, with particular reference to the transition region between the smooth and rough pipe laws, *Journal of the Institution of Civil Engineers*, 11, 1938–1939, 133–156.

3. Moody, L. F., Friction factors for pipe flow, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 66, 1944, 671–684.

4. Moody, L. F., An approximate formula for pipe friction factors, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 69, 1947, 1005–1006.

5. Wood, D. J., An explicit friction factor relationship, *Civil Engineering-ASCE*, 36(12), 1966, 60–61.

6. Churchill, S. W., Empirical expressions for the shear stress in turbulent flow in commercial pipe, *American Institute of Chemical Engineering Journal*, 19(2), 1973, 375–376.

7. Swamee, P. K. and A. K. Jain, Explicit equations for pipe-flow problems, *Journal of the Hydraulics Division, American Society of Civil Engineers*, 102(HY5), 1976, 657–664.

8. Chen, N. H., An explicit equation for friction factor, *American Institute of Chemical Engineering Journal*, 19(2), 1980, 229–230.

9. Shacham, M., An explicit equation for friction factor in pipe, *Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Fundamentals*, 19(2), 1980, 228–229.

10. Barr, D. I. H., Solutions to the Colebrook-White functions for resistance to uniform turbulent flow, *Proceeding of the Institute of Civil Engineers*, Part 2, 71, 1981, 529.

11. Haaland, S. E., Simple and explicit formulas for the friction factor in turbulent pipe flow, *Transactions of the ASME, Journal of Fluids Engineering*, 105, 1983, 89–90.

12. Uhl, A. E. et al., Steady Flow in Gas Pipelines, *Institute of Gas Technology Report No. 10, American Gas Association*, New York, 1956.

13. Manadilli, G., Replace implicit equations with sigmoidal functions, *Chemical Engineering*, 104(8), 1997, 187.

14. Romeo, E., C. Royo, and A. Monzon, Improved explicit equations for estimation of friction factor in rough and smooth pipes, *Chemical Engineering*, 86, 2002, 369–374.

15. Yildirim, G., Computer-based analysis of explicit approximations to the implicit Colebrook-White equation in turbulent flow friction factor calculation, *Advances in Engineering Software*, 40, 2009, 1183–1190.

16. Churchill, S. W., Friction-factor equation spans all fluid-flow regimes, *Chemical Engineering*, 84, 1977, 91–92.

17. Wilson, N. W. and R. S. Azad, A continuous prediction method for fully developed laminar, transitional and turbulent flows in pipes, *Journal of Applied Mechanics*, 42, 1975, 51–54.

18. Schroeder, D. W., *A Tutorial on Pipe Flow Equations*, Stoner Associates, Inc., Carlisle, Pennsylvania, August 16, 2001.

## FURTHER READING

This list includes books and papers that may be helpful to those who wish to pursue further study.

Kemler, E., A study of the data on the flow of fluids in pipes, *Transactions of ASME*, 55, 1933, 7–32.

Colebrook, C. F. and C. M. White, The reduction of carrying capacity of pipes with age, *Journal of the Institution of Civil Engineers*, 10, 1937–1938, 99–118.

Freeman, J. R., Experiments on the Flow of Water in Pipes and Pipe Fittings, 1889 to 1893. (Published by the *ASME* in a special volume in 1941.).

Tao, L. N. and W. F. Donovan, Through-flow in concentric and eccentric annuli of fine clearance with and without relative motion of the boundaries, *Transactions of the ASME*, 77, 1955, 1291–1301.

Rouse, H. and S. Ince, *History of Hydraulics*, Iowa Institute of Hydraulic Research, State University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA. 1957.

Lohrenz, J. and F. Kurata, A friction factor plot...for smooth circular conduits, concentric annuli, and parallel plates, *Industrial & Engineering Chemistry*, 52(8), 1960, 703–706.

U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, Friction Factors for Large Conduit Flowing Full, Engineering Monograph, No. 7, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C., 1965.

Selander, W. N., *Explicit Formulas for the Computation of Friction Factors in Turbulent Pipe Flow*, Atomic Energy of Canada Limited, Chalk River, Ontario, Canada, 1978 (AECL-6354).

Guislain, S. J., How to Make Sense of Friction Factors in Fluid Flow Through Pipe, *Plant Engineering*, June 12, 1980, pp. 134–140.

Lamont, P. A., Pipe flow formulas compared with the theory of roughness, *American Water Works Association Journal*, 73(5), 1981.

Olujić, Ž., Compute Friction Factors Fast for Flow in Pipes, *Chemical Engineering*, December 14, 1981, pp. 91–93.

Obot, N. T., Determination of incompressible flow friction factor in smooth circular and noncircular passages: A generalized approach including validation of the nearly century old hydraulic diameter concept, *Transactions of the ASME, Journal of Fluids Engineering*, 110, 1988, 431–440.

Scaggs, W. F., R. P. Taylor, and H. W. Coleman, Measurement and prediction of rough wall effects on friction factor—Uniform roughness results, *Transactions of the ASME, Journal of Fluids Engineering*, 110, 1988, 385–391.

Taylor, R. P., W. F. Scaggs, and H. W. Coleman, Measurement and prediction of the effects of nonuniform surface roughness on turbulent flow friction coefficients, *Transactions of the ASME, Journal of Fluids Engineering*, 110, 1988, 380–383.

Farshad, F. F. and H. H. Rieke, Surface-roughness design values for modern pipes, *Society of Petroleum Engineers, Drilling & Completion*, SPE 89040, 2006, 212–215.