276 VELOCITY PROFILE EQUATIONS

$$
\frac{u}{V_c} = 1 + 2.5 \left(\frac{V_*}{V_c}\right)\ln \frac{y}{R}.
$$
(5.38)

Using the Darcy–Weisbach equation,

$$
\Delta p = \left(f \frac{L}{D}\right)\rho \frac{V^2}{2g_c},
$$
(5.39)

with equation 5.2 (p. 182),

$$
\tau = \frac{\Delta pr}{2L},
$$
(5.2)

and with equation 5.18 (equation for friction velocity, $V_*$),

$$
V_* = \sqrt{\frac{\tau_0 g_c}{\rho}},
$$
(5.18)

Benedict obtains:

$$
\frac{V_*}{V_c} = \sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} \left(\frac{V}{V_c}\right),
$$
(5.40)

or

$$
V_* = V \sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}.
$$
(5.40 alternate)

We can write equation 5.38 (and Eq. 5.33) as:

$$
u = V_c + 2.5V_* \ln \frac{y}{R}.
$$
(5.38 or 5.33 alternate)

Now, if we substitute equations 5.40 alternate and 5.36 alternate into equation 5.38 alternate, we obtain the explicit equation for velocity profile:

$$
u = V_c + 2.5V_* \ln \frac{y}{R}.
$$
(5.38 alternate)

But

$$
V_c = V + 3.75V_*,
$$
(5.36 alternate)

and

$$
V_* = V \sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}.
$$
(5.40 alternate)

Therefore,

$$
u = (V + 3.75V_*) + 2.5V_* \ln \frac{y}{R}
$$

$$
= \left(V + 3.75V \sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}\right) + 2.5V \sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} \ln \frac{y}{R}
$$

$$
= V\left(1 + 3.75\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}\right) + 2.5V \sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} \ln \frac{y}{R}
$$

$$
= V\left(1 + 3.75\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} + 2.5\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}\ln \frac{y}{R}\right).
$$

Then:

$$
\frac{u}{V} = \left(1 + 3.75\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} + 2.5\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}\ln \frac{y}{R}\right).
$$
(5.36 + 5.38 + 5.40)

Is this for smooth pipes only? Benedict gives for rough pipes:

$$
u^+ = 2.5\ln \frac{y}{R} + 3.75 + \frac{V}{V_*}.
$$
(5.52)

Benedict defines $u^+$ as follows:

$$
u^+ = \frac{u}{V_*}
$$
(5.19)

Inserting this into Equation 5.52 yields:

$$
\frac{u}{V_*} = 2.5\ln \frac{y}{R} + 3.75 + \frac{V}{V_*}
$$

or

$$
u = V_*2.5\ln \frac{y}{R} + 3.75V_* + V.
$$

By dividing by $V$ we get:

$$
\frac{u}{V} = \frac{V_*}{V}2.5\ln \frac{y}{R} + 3.75\frac{V_*}{V} + 1.
$$

Then, remembering that $V_* = V\sqrt{f/8}$ (Eq. 5.40, alternate) or $V_*/V = \sqrt{f/8}$, we may insert it into the equation above to obtain:

$$
\frac{u}{V} = \sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}\,2.5\ln \frac{y}{R} + 3.75\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} + 1.
$$

Rearranged, this is:

$$
\frac{u}{V} = 1 + 3.75\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} + 2.5\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}\ln \frac{y}{R}.
$$

This is exactly the same as given above as the smooth pipe velocity profile:

$$
\frac{u}{V} = \left(1 + 3.75\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}} + 2.5\sqrt{\frac{f}{8}}\ln \frac{y}{R}\right).
$$

So the velocity profile equation given above is valid (according to Benedict) for both smooth and rough pipes.

The plot of this equation is shown in Figure F1.