40

# COMPRESSIBLE FLOW

*total temperature* are known, substitute the expression for static temperature $T$, in terms of total temperature $T_t$, in place of $T$; then:

$$
M=\frac{B}{P}\sqrt{\frac{T_t}{1+M^2(\gamma-1)/2}}.
$$

This equation is a quadratic in $M^2$ whose solution is:

$$
M^2=\frac{\sqrt{1+2(\gamma-1)(B\sqrt{T_t}/P)^2}-1}{\gamma-1}.
$$

Note the similarity of the expression $B\sqrt{T_t}/P$ in this equation to that for Mach number $M$ in Equation 4.23. They are identical except that the one above contains $T_t$ while Equation 4.23 contains simply $T$. Let us therefore call the expression (and similar expressions utilizing the available temperature and pressure, whether they be static or total) “core Mach number,” $M_{\text{core}}$, because of its similarity to the simple expression for Mach number based on static values, and because it is the “core” of the expression for Mach number when values other than static values are utilized. Then, for the *static pressure and total temperature* case, we may write:

$$
M^2=\frac{\sqrt{1+2(\gamma-1)M_{\text{core}}^2}-1}{\gamma-1}.
$$

This $M^2$ may now be substituted into Equation 4.16 to find the $f_{\text{ave}}L_{\max}/D$ or $K_{\text{limit}}$, and from thence to find the Mach number at the other end of the duct. Using Equations 4.19 through 4.22 in the preceding section, the unknown pressures and temperatures may be found at both ends of the pipe.

## 4.3.1.3 Solution when Total Pressure and Total Temperature Are Known

If *total pressure and total temperature* are known at one end of the duct, the expressions for static pressure in terms of total pressure and static temperature in terms of total temperature may be substituted into Equation 4.23 to obtain:

$$
M^2=M_{\text{core}}^2\left[1+M^2(\gamma-1)/2\right]^{(\gamma+1)/(\gamma-1)},
$$

where $M_{\text{core}}$ is again defined as the result of evaluating Equation 4.23 with the available temperature and pressure (total pressure and total temperature in this case) instead of with strictly the static values.

The foregoing formula presents a problem—it is another of those equations that cannot be solved explicitly. As described in Section 4.3.1.1 regarding Equation 4.16, a satisfactory solution can be obtained using a trial-and-error method with a programmable calculator or computer. In this case, however, the solution is a little more complicated than that for Equation 4.16. There are some added constraints that must be observed, but within these constraints the solution for $M^2$ is easily found, and having found it the unknown pressures and temperatures can be found by applying Equations 4.16 through 4.22 in Section 4.3.1.1. A trial-and-error solution technique applicable to the equation above is described in Section 4.3.2 using a spreadsheet. A computer program solution technique is also shown in Appendix E, Section E.3.

## 4.3.1.4 Solution when Total Pressure and Static Temperature Are Known

If *total pressure and static temperature* are known at one end of the duct, the expression for static pressure in terms of total pressure may be substituted into Equation 4.23 to obtain:

$$
M^2=M_{\text{core}}^2\left[1+M^2(\gamma-1)/2\right]^{2\gamma/(\gamma-1)},
$$

where $M_{\text{core}}$ is again defined as the result of evaluating Equation 4.18 with the available temperature and pressure (total pressure and static temperature in this case) instead of with strictly the static values.

The detailed derivation and solution technique are given in Appendix E, Section E.4. The derivation is very similar to that for the *total pressure/total temperature* case in Section 4.3.1.3 above, and the solution technique and caveats are identical. A solution technique using a spreadsheet is also described in Section 4.5 below.

## 4.3.1.5 Treating Changes in Area

While Street et al.’s adiabatic flow with friction equation is valid only for constant-area ducts, transitions between pipe sizes are as easy to handle as they are in incompressible flow calculations. For an expansion or contraction, it may be assumed that the change of area is negotiated isentropically (that is, without losses) so that the total pressure at the inlet and outlet of the fitting are the same. (Total temperature will always be the same in adiabatic flow.) Then another calculation may be made on the new size of pipe, using the total conditions at the adjacent end of the previous run of pipe. To account for the local loss in the fitting, the equivalent length of the fitting’s resistance coefficient *in the smaller pipe* should be determined, whether it is upstream or downstream, and added to that stretch’s length. It is recommended that the smaller pipe be used for determining the energy loss because loss coefficients of contractions and expansions found in Part II are based on the velocity in (or diameter of) the smaller pipe.

For calculating pressure drop in valves, it is recommended that a commercial valve sizing program be