## REFERENCES

1. Bean, H. S., ed., *Fluid Meters, Their Theory and Application*, 6th ed., Report of ASME Committee on Fluid Meters, 1971.  
2. Spink, L. K., *Principles and Practices of Flow Meter Engineering*, 9th ed., The Foxboro Company, Foxboro, MA, 1978.

## FURTHER READING

This list includes books and papers that may be helpful to those who wish to pursue further study.

Warren, J., A study of head loss in Venturi-meter diffuser sections, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, Paper No. 50-A-65, 73, 1951, 1-4.

Methods for the Measurement of Fluid Flow, *British Standard 1042; Part 1*, 1964.

Leutheusser, H. J., Flow nozzles with zero beta ratio, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 86, 1964, 538-542.

Replogle, J. A., L. E. Myers, and K. J. Brust, Evaluation of pipe elbow as flow meters, *Journal of the Irrigation and Drainage Division, Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, 92(IR3), 1966, 17-34.

Arnberg, B. T., C. L. Britton, and W. F. Seidl, Discharge coefficient correlations for circular-arc Venturi flowmeters at critical (sonic) flow, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, Paper No. 73-WA/FM-8, 96, 1974, 1-13.

Miller, R. W. and O. Kneisel, A comparison between orifice and flow nozzle laboratory data and published coefficients, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 96, 1974, 139-149.

Head, V. P., Improved expansion factors for nozzles, orifices, and variable-area meters, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 96, 1974, 150-157.

Benedict, R. P., Loss coefficients of fluid meters, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, Paper No. 76-WA/FM-2, 99, 1977, 245-248.

Benedict, R. P. and J. S. Wyler, Analytical and experimental studies of ASME flow nozzles, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 100, 1978, 265-275.

Alvi, S. H., K. Sridharan, and N. S. Lakshmana Rao, Loss characteristics of orifices and nozzles, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 100, 1978, 299-307.

Buzzard, W., *Flowmeter Orifice Sizing*, Handbook No. 10B9000, Fischer and Porter Company, 1978.

Kopp, J., Flowmeter selection(Part 1, in *Oil, Gas & Petrochem Equipment*, The Petroleum Publishing Company, 1979.

Kopp, J., Flowmeter selection(Part 2, in *Oil, Gas & Petrochem Equipment*, The Petroleum Publishing Company, 1979.

ASME Fluid Meters Research Committee, The ISO-ASME Orifice Coefficient Equation, *Mechanical Engineering*, July 1981, pp. 44-45.

Miller, R. W., *Flow Measurement Engineering Handbook*, 3rd ed., McGraw-Hill, 1996.

Roberson, J. A. and C. T. Crowe, *Engineering Fluid Mechanics*, 6th ed., John Wiley & Sons, 1997 (Chapter 13 Flow Measurements).

Baker, R. C., *Flow Measurement Handbook: Industrial Design, Operating Principles, Performance, and Applications*, Cambridge University Press, 2000.

Furness, R., Don’t Install That Flowmeter (Until You Read This Article on Installation Claims, Tips(and Reality), *Flow Control*, March 2002, pp. 31-47.

Falcone, G., *Multiphase Flow Metering*, Elsevier, 2009.