266

# COMPRESSIBILITY FACTOR EQUATIONS

until it becomes small enough—as small a value as desired or allowed by the computational precision of the computer—that the solution may be considered to have been found.

The solution technique described above has one caveat—it works well except in the region of the critical point. There the derivative approaches zero and the procedure usually gets caught in a loop. To circumvent this a different technique must be substituted on the first occurrence of a change in sign of the correction term $(V_r^{(0)})'/f'(V_r^{(0)})$. One method is to interpolate between the $V_r^{(0)}$ that caused the sign of $f(V_r^{(0)})$ to change and the one just previous to it to estimate the $V_r^{(0)}$ where the curve crosses the $f(V_r^{(0)}) = 0$ line.

The reader will note that Pitzer’s acentric factor $\omega$ is used in the solution for the compressibility factor $z$. Reid et al. (*The Properties of Gases and Liquids*, 3rd ed., McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York, 1977) state that application of correlations employing the acentric factor should be limited to normal fluids; in no case should such correlations be used for H$_2$, He, Ne, or for strongly polar and/or hydrogen-bonded fluids. Therefore, for these nonnormal fluids it is suggested that the compressibility factor yielded by the Lee–Kesler equation be compared with actual fluid data compressibility factors on a plot such as Figure 1.3 in Chapter 1. From this plot it may be seen what shift in critical constants will bring the Lee–Kesler compressibility factor into congruence with the real compressibility factor for the largest region on the chart. Several modifications of the acentric factor may be necessary to achieve the best agreement.

## D.3 IMPORTANT CONSTANTS FOR SELECTED GASES

Following are two tables of important constants necessary to implement the Redlich–Kwong and Lee-Kesler compressibility factor equations. Table D.2 gives the acentric factor $\omega$ for selected gases.

Table D.3 gives critical constants for the same gases. Data are included for ammonia, hydrogen, and helium for use in these equations; the data for these gases should be amended as described in Section D.1 for best results in the Redlich-Kwong equation, and as described above in Section D.2 for best results in the Lee–Kesler equation.

Table D.3 includes critical constants from various authorities. It is suggested that consensus values or averages of all the values be used for each constant.

### TABLE D.2. Acentric Factor $\omega$ for Selected Gases

| Gas | $\omega$ | Gas | $\omega$ | Gas | $\omega$ |
|---|---:|---|---:|---|---:|
| Acetylene | 0.184 | CO$_2$ | 0.225 | Methane | 0.008 |
| Air | 0.036 | Helium | −0.387 | Nitrogen | 0.040 |
| Ammonia | 0.250 | n-Hydrogen | −0.22 | Oxygen | 0.021 |
| Argon | −0.004 | p-Hydrogen | −0.219 | Propane | 0.152 |

See Table D.3 footnote d for bibliography. Parahydrogen $\omega$ is calculated from footnote g data.