# 11

# EXPANSIONS

Flow through a sudden or abrupt expansion in a piping system (see Fig. 11.1) gives rise to an increase in static pressure at the expense of a drop in kinetic energy. A “potential” core forms in the expanded section. Initially the core has a relatively flat velocity profile. This core spreads out and is separated from the remaining fluid by a surface of separation which disintegrates into powerful eddies in a recirculation or free-mixing stall region. The eddies develop and gradually disappear, and the core expands radially over the section until reattachment to the wall occurs.

Many experimental investigations have been conducted for confined flow in sudden expansions (sometimes referred to as backward facing steps). Test results show that for incompressible, fully developed turbulent flow in circular ducts the reattachment length-to-step height ratio, $L/S$, ranges from 6 to 9. Many authors assume that complete pressure recovery takes place at the reattachment point. However, beyond the reattachment point, the velocity profile continues to change until a moderately developed turbulent flow profile is achieved at distance ratios $L/S$ on the order of 12–16.

Using a divergent connecting passage, or diffuser to make the transition from a passage of smaller cross section to a passage of larger cross section can substantially reduce expansion losses. The primary purpose of a diffuser is to convert kinetic energy of flow (or dynamic head) into static pressure (or static head) with minimum loss of total pressure. Much data, intimately related to the presence or absence of flow separation, or stall, are available in the literature on the performance and design of straight, two-, and three-dimensional diffusers. Herein, we are simply concerned with loss of total pressure, or the loss coefficient, of three-dimensional diffusers, with or without appreciable stall.

The information presented in this chapter is based on incompressible flow. The information is based on symmetrical inlet conditions between the extremes of uniform velocity and of fully developed turbulent flow at the inlet to the expansion, and assumes a reasonable length of downstream straight pipe. Data on a number of inlet and outlet flow conditions may be found in the literature (see the section “Further Reading” at the end of this chapter).

## 11.1 SUDDEN EXPANSION

A sudden axisymmetric expansion is shown in Figure 11.2. The energy, momentum, and continuity equations are applied to predict losses through the sudden expansion. While focus is directed to a single circular passage, this treatment is general and applies to both single and multiple passage expansions. The passage may actually be of any cross-sectional shape.

In the constant density fluid case, the continuity relationship for flow rate $\dot{w}$ through the control volume $\mathbf{abcd}$ is given by:

$$
\dot{w} = \rho_w A_1 V_1 = \rho_w A_2 V_2.
\qquad (11.1)
$$

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.*  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

113