116 EXPANSIONS

available for conical diffusers which act solely as expansions between constant area circular passages. These data are developed here because it applies to piping system diffuser applications.

In Gibson’s classical investigations [4,5], conical diffusers with upstream and downstream pipe sections were tested over a range of angles and area ratios. Gibson developed a head loss equation for values of divergence angle between $7.5^\circ$ and $35^\circ$. He expressed diffuser head loss as a percentage of the Borda-Carnot loss at a sudden enlargement between the same flow areas. However, his equation did not account for surface friction conditions different from his test conditions. Expanding on Gibson’s formulations, the author developed equations that separately accounted for local, or expansion, loss, and surface friction loss for values of divergence angle between $0^\circ$ and $180^\circ$. The equations give good agreement with Gibson’s test data, particularly for divergence angles between $0^\circ$ and $20^\circ$, which is the range of greatest interest in piping system applications.

Letting $K_{fr1}$ represent the surface friction loss and $K_{L1}$ represent the local or expansion loss, it is fitting to express the loss coefficient of diffusers in the form of:

$$
K_1 = K_{fr1} + K_{L1}.
$$

The theoretical equation for surface friction loss coefficient that was developed in Section 10.4 for conical contractions can be applied as well to conical diffusers*:

$$
K_{fr1} = \frac{f(1-\beta^4)}{8\sin(\alpha/2)}.
\qquad (11.7)
$$

Equation 11.7 was developed for converging flow, but it seems to work just as well for diverging flow. In this case, the friction factor $f$ is the ordinary friction factor based on the relative roughness of the diffuser surface as determined by the hydraulic diameter and Reynolds number at the diffuser inlet.$\dagger$ The equation is plotted as a function of beta ratio $\beta$ and divergence angle $\alpha$ in Diagram 11.2 for a friction factor $f$ of 0.020. The value of $K_{fr1}$ at friction factors other than 0.020 can be obtained by simple ratio. It is evident that surface friction loss may be generally ignored at divergence angles greater than about $40^\circ$.

Using Equation 11.7, surface friction loss was separated from Gibson’s data by assigning friction factors at the diffuser inlets ranging from 0.020 to 0.026. A reasonableness check determined that friction factors in this range would be expected.$\ddagger$

After separating surface friction loss from Gibson’s test data, the author developed equations for the local (or expansion) loss portion of diffuser loss. The local loss equations were then recombined with the equation for surface friction loss (Eq. 11.7) to obtain overall equations for conical diffuser loss. For divergence angle from $0^\circ$ to $20^\circ$, expansion loss can be simply expressed as:

$$
K_1 = 8.30[\tan(\alpha/2)]^{1.75}(1-\beta^2)^2 + \frac{f(1-\beta^4)}{8\sin(\alpha/2)}
\qquad (11.8)
$$

$$
(0^\circ \leq \alpha \leq 20^\circ)(0 \geq \beta \leq 1).
$$

The following approximate formula was developed for diffuser loss for divergence angles from $20^\circ$ to $60^\circ$ for $\beta$ less than 0.5:

$$
K_1 \approx \left\{1.366\sin\left[\frac{2\pi(\alpha-15^\circ)}{180}\right]^{1/2} - 0.170 - 3.28(0.0625-\beta^4)\sqrt{\frac{\alpha-20^\circ}{40^\circ}}\right\}(1-\beta^2)^2 + \frac{f(1-\beta^4)}{8\sin(\alpha/2)},
$$

$$
(20^\circ \leq \alpha \leq 60^\circ)(0 \geq \beta < 0.5).
\qquad (11.9a)
$$

For divergence angles from $20^\circ$ to $60^\circ$ for $\beta$ equal to or greater than 0.5:

$$
K_1 \approx \left\{1.366\sin\left[\frac{2\pi(\alpha-15^\circ)}{180}\right]^{1/2} - 0.170\right\}(1-\beta^2)^2 + \frac{f(1-\beta^4)}{8\sin(\alpha/2)}
$$

$$
(20^\circ \leq \alpha \leq 60^\circ)(0.5 \geq \beta \leq 1).
\qquad (11.9b)
$$

The surface friction term can generally be ignored for divergence angles above $40^\circ$ or $50^\circ$. For divergence

\* In the following equations $\alpha$ is generally expressed in radians; the exceptions for using degrees are obvious.  
$\dagger$ The magnitude of $f$ may actually vary along the diffuser, but is assumed constant.

$\ddagger$ Gibson did not report flow rates or Reynolds numbers for his tests. He did, however, note that his test velocities varied from 1.83 to just over 21 ft/s. Assuming 21 ft/s test velocity at the inlet of the narrowest test diffuser diameter of 0.5 in, and ratioing velocity downward by inlet area for the other test diffusers, the author estimates that the Reynolds number at the diffuser inlets ranged from about 20,000 to 70,000. With regard to surface conditions, Gibson’s diffusers were “very carefully made of wood, finished off with a coating of shellac varnish.” Assuming smooth walls, friction factors at the diffuser inlets ranging from 0.020 to 0.026 were then estimated from the Moody Diagram.