# 2.4.2 Pressure Energy

Pressure is commonly expressed as force per unit area—for example, lb/in$^2$, lb/ft$^2$, or N/m$^2$ (pascals). If the fluid's pressure is divided by its weight density, its potential for doing work is expressed in potential energy terms. Consistent units will eliminate mixed unit problems. Thus lb/ft$^2$ and N/m$^2$ yield:

$$
P/\rho_w = (\text{lb/ft}^2)/(\text{lb/ft}^3) = \text{ft},
$$

$$
P/\rho_m = (\text{N/m}^2)/(\text{N/m}^3) = \text{m}.
$$

As an example, a fluid under pressure $P$ can be lifted in a manometer to a height $P/\rho_w$ or $P/\rho_m$. This is called the *pressure head*.

# 2.4.3 Kinetic Energy

The simple equations of motion show that in the absence of air or other resistance any body dropped from one elevation to another lower elevation acquires a velocity equal to the square root of twice the product of the elevation difference and the acceleration of gravity, that is,

$$
V = \sqrt{2g\Delta Z}.
$$

Conversely, any body moving with velocity $V$ can, if the velocity can be directed upward, attain a height of:

$$
\Delta Z = V^2/2g.
\tag{2.9}
$$

A fluid's energy of motion is thus $V^2/2g$ ft-lb/lb or simply ft (or N-m/N or m). This is called the *velocity head*. The symbol is $H_{KE}$.

In the hypothetical flow system shown in Figure 2.5 we might assume that every molecule of fluid is passing through the conduit, at any one cross section, at the same velocity. In such a case the fluid's average velocity would be the same as that of any particle of the flow, and its kinetic energy would be accurately described by Equation 2.9, where $V$ is the fluid's average velocity. A real fluid, however, never flows in quite this fashion. At the wall of the conduit its velocity always approaches zero and it increases to a maximum at the center of the conduit for fully developed flow. The kinetic energies of its parts vary depending on their locations in the cross section. Because the square of the average is not the same as the average of the squares, a correction factor $\phi$ must be included if the average velocity is used to calculate the kinetic energy of the flowing fluid:

$$
H_{KE} = \phi V^2/2g.
$$

The correction factor will be treated in more detail in a later section, but suffice it to say now that $\phi$ is required to measure *precisely* the kinetic energy of the fluid.

# 2.4.4 Heat Energy

The English physicist James Prescott Joule (1818–1889) showed conclusively in experiments conducted between 1843 and 1850 that heat is equivalent to work. The physical constant relating the two is denoted here by the symbol $J$. To convert common heat units (Btu/lb or kcal/kN) to specific work units (ft or m) the heat units are multiplied by $J$ in the proper units. Because transferred heat flux $Q$ is usually calculated in heat units and the energy equation is usually set up with work units, it is convenient to convert the heat units to work units:

$$
JQ = \left(\frac{\text{ft-lb}}{\text{Btu}}\right)\left(\frac{\text{Btu}}{\text{s}}\right) = \frac{\text{ft-lb}}{\text{s}},
$$

$$
= \left(\frac{\text{N-m}}{\text{kcal}}\right)\left(\frac{\text{kcal}}{\text{s}}\right) = \frac{\text{N-m}}{\text{s}}.
$$

The units in the foregoing expression, now in work units per unit time, must be further converted to potential energy units:

$$
\frac{JQ}{\dot{w}} = \frac{\text{ft-lb/s}}{\text{lb/s}} = \frac{\text{ft-lb}}{\text{lb}} = \text{ft},
\tag{2.10a}
$$

$$
= \frac{\text{N-m/s}}{\text{N/s}} = \frac{\text{N-m}}{\text{N}} = \text{m}
\tag{2.10b}
$$

Internal heat energy, that is, heat energy possessed by the fluid upon entering the flow system or leaving it, like transferred heat, is usually expressed in heat units; but unlike transferred heat it is treated on a per-unit-weight basis or a per-unit-mass basis. (For this discussion let us continue to treat the individual terms of the general energy equation on a per-unit-weight basis.) Internal heat energy, or simply internal energy, denoted by the symbol $U$, is converted to potential energy units as follows:

$$
JU = \left(\frac{\text{ft-lb}}{\text{Btu}}\right)\left(\frac{\text{Btu}}{\text{lb}}\right) = \text{ft},
$$

$$
JU = \left(\frac{\text{N-m}}{\text{kcal}}\right)\left(\frac{\text{kcal}}{\text{N}}\right) = \text{m}, \text{ or}
$$

$$
= \frac{\text{joules}}{\text{N}} = \frac{\text{N-m}}{\text{N}} = \text{m}.
$$