# 8.7 NONCIRCULAR PASSAGES

The foregoing friction factor equations for circular pipes may be adapted to noncircular passages through the use of the *hydraulic diameter*. The hydraulic diameter, $d_h$, is an arbitrary definition of a value calculated so that the ratio of pressure forces acting over the flow area to the frictional forces acting along the wetted perimeter* is the same for circular and noncircular passages. It turns out that a multiplier of 4 is necessary to satisfy this definition. For example, applying the definition to a circular passage produces:

$$
d_h = \frac{4 \dfrac{\pi d^2}{4}}{\pi d} = d,
$$

as should be the case. The calculated hydraulic diameter of several noncircular flow passages follow.

For a *square passage* of width $w$,

$$
d_h = \frac{4w^2}{4w} = w.
$$

For a *rectangular passage* of width $w$ and length $l$,

$$
d_h = \frac{4wl}{2(w + l)} = \frac{2wl}{w + l}.
$$

For a *slit* of width $w$ and (infinite) length $l$,

$$
d_h = \frac{4wl}{2l} = 2w.
$$

For an *annulus* of outer diameter $d_o$ and inner diameter $d_i$,$\dagger$

$$
d_h = \frac{4 \dfrac{\pi}{4}(d_o^2 - d_i^2)}{\pi(d_o + d_i)} = d_o - d_i.
$$

The hydraulic diameter $d_h$ is substituted for $d$ in Equation 1.3 (loss coefficient due to surface friction), as well as in the various friction factor equations and the “Moody Chart.” The hydraulic diameter is also used when computing Reynolds number for noncircular flow passages.

\* The wetted perimeter is the perimeter of the flow passage in contact with the fluid. The hydraulic diameter concept is particularly important in open channel flow calculations.

$\dagger$ Additional correction factors are required to accurately calculate friction factor for flow through an annulus. These correction factors, available in the literature, differentiate between concentric and eccentric alignment of the annulus, and between laminar versus turbulent flow.