128 EXPANSIONS

# REFERENCES

1. Nusselt, W., The pressure in the annulus of pipes with a sudden increase in cross section for high velocity air flow, *Forschung auf dem Gebiete des Ingenieurwesens*, 11(5), 1940, 250–255.

2. Borda, J. C., Memoire sur l’ecoulement des Fluides par les Orifices des Vases, *Memoire de l’academie Royale des Sciences*, 1766.

3. Benedict, R. P., N. A. Carlucci, and S. D. Swetz, Flow losses in abrupt enlargements and contractions, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 88(1), 1966, 73–81.

4. Gibson, A. H., On the flow of water through pipes and passages having converging or diverging boundaries, *Transactions of the Royal Society, London, Series A*, 83(A563), 1910, 366–378.

5. Gibson, A. H., On the resistance to flow of water through pipes or passages having divergent boundaries, *Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh*, 48(5), Part 1, 1911–1913, 97–116.

6. Idel’chik, I. E., Aerodynamics of the flow and pressure head losses in diffusers, *Prom. Aerodin.*, No. 3, 1947, pp. 132–209.

# FURTHER READING

This list includes books and papers that may be helpful to those who wish to pursue further study.

Archer, W. H., Experimental determination of loss of head due to sudden enlargement in circular pipes, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 76, 1913, 999.

Schutt, H. C., Losses of pressure head due to sudden enlargement of a flow cross-section, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 51, 1929, 83–87.

Peters, H., Conversion of energy in cross-sectional divergences under different conditions of inflow, *Ingenieur-Archiv*, II, 1931, 92–107.

Patterson, G. N., Modern diffuser design, *Aircraft Engineering*, 10, 1938, 267.

Kays, W. M., Loss coefficients for abrupt changes in flow cross section with low Reynolds number in single and multiple-tube systems, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, Paper No. 50-S-7, 72, 1950, 1067–1074.

Robertson, J. M. and D. Ross, Effects of entrance conditions on diffuser flow, *Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, 78, Separate No. 141, 1952, 1–24.

Squire, H. B., Experiments on Conical Diffusers, *Aeronautical Research Council, London, R. & M. No. 2751*, 1953.

Hall, W. B. and E. M. Orme, Flow of a Compressible Fluid Through a Sudden Enlargement in a Pipe, *The Institution of Mechanical Engineers*, 1955.

Winternitz, F. A. L. and W. J. Ramsay, Effects of inlet boundary layer on pressure recovery, energy conversion and losses in conical diffusers, *Journal of the Royal Aeronautical Society*, 61, 1957, 116.

Rippl, E., Experimental investigations concerning the efficiency of slim conical diffusers and their behavior with regards to flow separation, *Monthly Technical Review*, 2(3), 1958, 64–70.

Kline, S. J., D. E. Abbott, and R. W. Fox, Optimum design of straight-walled diffusers, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, Paper No. 58-A-137, 81, 1959, 321–328.

Abbott, D. E. and S. J. Kline, Experimental investigations of subsonic turbulent flow over single and double facing steps, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 84, 1962, 73.

Fox, R. W. and S. J. Kline, Flow regimes in curved subsonic diffusers, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 84, 1962, 303–316.

Lipstein, N. J., Low velocity sudden expansion pipe flow, *American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers Journal*, 5, 1962, 43–47.

Chaturvedi, M. C., Flow characteristics of axisymmetric expansions, *Journal of the Hydraulics Division, Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, 89(HY3), 1963, 61–92.

Cockrell, D. J. and E. Markland, A Review of Incompressible Diffuser Flow, *Aircraft Engineering*, October 1963.

McDonald, A. T. and R. W. Fox, An experimental investigation of incompressible flow in conical diffusers, *International Journal of Mechanical Sciences*, 8(2), 1966, 1.

Carlson, J. J., J. P. Johnston, and S. J. Sagi, Effects of wall shape on flow regimes and performance in straight, two-dimensional diffusers, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 89, 1967, 73–81.

Reneau, L. R., J. P. Johnston, and S. J. Kline, Performance and design of straight, two-dimensional diffusers, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 89, 1967, 141–150.

Sagi, C. J. and J. P. Johnston, The design and performance of two-dimensional, curved diffusers, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 89, 1967, 151–160.

Sovran, G. and E. D. Klomp, *Experimentally Determined Optimum Geometries for Rectilinear Diffusers with Rectangular, Conical or Annular Cross-Section*, (reprinted from *Fluid Mechanics of Internal Flow*) Elsevier Publishing Co., Amsterdam, 1967, pp. 270–319.

Masuda, S., I. Ariga, and I. Waranabe, On the behavior of uniform shear flow in diffusers and its effects on diffuser performance, *Journal of Engineering for Power, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 93, 1971, 377–385.