# PREFACE

This book provides practical and comprehensive information on the subject of pressure drop and other phenomena in fluid flow in pipes. The importance of piping systems in distribution systems, in industrial operations, and in modern power plants justifies a book devoted exclusively to this subject. The emphasis is on flow in piping components and piping systems where greatest benefit will derive from accurate prediction of pressure loss.

A great deal of experimental and theoretical research on fluid flow in pipes and their components has been reported over the years. However, the basic methodology in fluid flow textbooks is usually fragmented, scattered throughout several chapters and paragraphs; and useful, practical information is difficult to sort out. Moreover, textbooks present very little loss coefficient data, and those that are given are desperately out of date. Elsewhere, experimental data and published formulas for loss coefficients have provided results that are in considerable disagreement. Into the bargain, researchers have not accounted for all possible flow configurations and their results are not always presented in a readily useful form. This book addresses and fixes these deficiencies.

Instead of having to search and read through various sources, this book provides the user with virtually all the information required to design and analyze piping systems. Example problems, their setups, and solutions are provided throughout the book. Most parts of the book will be easily understood by those who are not experts in the field.

Part I (Chapters 1 through 7) contains the essential methodology required to solve accurately pipe flow problems. Chapter 1 provides knowledge of the physical properties of fluids and the nature of fluid flow. Chapter 2 presents the basic principles of conservation of mass, momentum, and energy, and introduces the concepts of head loss and energy grade line. Chapter 3 presents the conventional head loss equation and characterizes the two sources of head loss—surface friction and induced turbulence. Several compressible flow calculation methods are presented in Chapter 4. The straightforward setup of series, parallel, and branching flow networks, including sample problems, is presented in Chapter 5. Chapter 6 introduces the basic methodology for solving transient flow problems, with specific examples. A method to assess the uncertainty associated with pipe flow calculations is presented in Chapter 7.

Part II (Chapters 8 through 19) presents consistent and reliable loss coefficient data on flow configurations most common to piping systems. Experimental test data and published formulas from worldwide sources are examined, integrated, and arranged into widely applicable equations—a valuable resource in this computer age. The results are also presented in straightforward tables and diagrams. The processes used to select and develop loss coefficient data for the various flow configurations are presented so the user can judge the merits of the results and the researcher can identify areas where further research is needed.

Friction factor, the main element of surface friction loss, is presented in Chapter 8 as an adjunct to quantifying the various features that contribute to head loss.

The flow configurations presented in Chapters 9 through 14 (entrances, contractions, expansions, exits, orifices, and flow meters) all exhibit some degree of flow contraction and/or expansion. As such, they have been treated as a family; where sufficient data for any one particular configuration were lacking, they were augmented by sufficient data in another.

xv