Unfortunately, this form is often used in practice even if the inlet and outlet areas are different.

While the head loss for induced turbulence is slightly dependent on the surface roughness, usually—unlike pipe friction—the feature geometry is by far the most important, and, after that, the Reynolds number. Part II gives $K$ for a number of important pipe fittings and arrangements.

## 3.2.3 Summing Loss Coefficients

Pressure losses in incompressible flow are additive. If a piping stretch has various contributors to the overall pressure loss with different areas, it will be convenient to have a formula for the overall pressure loss in terms of the characteristics of the individual pressure loss contributors. We may write:

$$
\Delta P_{OA} = \Delta P_a + \Delta P_b + \Delta P_c + \ldots + \Delta P_n.
$$

Substituting for the individual $\Delta Ps$ results in:

$$
\Delta P_{OA} =
\left( K \frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA^2\rho_w} \right)_a
+
\left( K \frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA^2\rho_w} \right)_b
+
\left( K \frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA^2\rho_w} \right)_c
+
$$

$$
\ldots +
\left( K \frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA^2\rho_w} \right)_n.
$$

The $Ks$ themselves are based on different areas, so we cannot add them. However, if we factor out $\dot{w}^2/2gA^2\rho_w$ we get:

$$
\Delta P_{OA} = \frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA^2w}
\left(
K_a \frac{A^2}{A_a^2}
+ K_b \frac{A^2}{A_b^2}
+ K_c \frac{A^2}{A_c^2}
+ \ldots + K_n \frac{A^2}{A_n^2}
\right).
$$

Each $K$, as modified by the ratio of the square of the ratio of the “standardized” area $(A)$ to the actual area $(A_a, A_b, A_c,$ or $A_n)$, can be added. We say that the resistance coefficients are referred to the standardized area (that is, $A$). The general form is:

$$
K = K_a \frac{A^2}{A_a^2}
\quad \text{or} \quad
K = K_a \frac{d^4}{d_a^4},
\tag{3.9}
$$

where

$K$ = standardized $K$ (usable in the $\Delta P$ formula with $A_1$),

$K_a$ = actual $K$ (usable with $A_a$ in the $\Delta P$ formula),

$A$ = standardized area,

$A_a$ = actual area,

$d$ = standardized diameter, and

$d_a$ = actual diameter.

Usually the “standardized” area is the area of the most important feature, usually pipe, in the stretch being considered.*

# REFERENCES

1. Hagen, G. H. L., Ueber die Bewegung des Wassers in agen cylindrischen Rohren, *Poggendorfs Ann. Phys. Chem.*, 46, 1839, 423. (Translated as “On the flow of water in narrow cylindrical pipes.”)
2. Poiseille, J. L. M., Recherches experimentales sur le mouvement des liquids dans les tubes tres petits diameters, *C. R. Acad. Sci.*, 1841. (Translated as “Experimental research on the flow of liquids through pipes of very small diameters.”)
3. Rouse, H. and S. Ince, *History of Hydraulics, Iowa Institute of Hydraulic Research*, State University of Iowa, 1957.
4. Darcy, H. P. G., Recherches experimentales relatives aux mouvement del’eau dans les tuyaux, *Mem. Acad. Inst. Imp. Fr.*, 15, 1858, 141. (Translated as “Experimental research on the flow of water in pipes.”)
5. Weisbach, J., Lehrbuch der Ingenieur—und Maschinen-Mechanik, Braunschweig, 1845.
6. Reynolds, O., An experimental investigation of the circumstances which determine whether the motion of water will be direct of sinuous, and the laws of resistance in parallel channels, *Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond.*, 1883.
7. Prandll, L., Ergeb. Aerodyn. Versuchsanst. Gottingen. Series 3, 1927. (Translated as “Reports of the Aerodynamic Research Institute at Gottingen.”).
8. Nikuradse, J., Laws of flow in rough pipes (in German), *Forsch.-Arb Ing.-Wesen*, 361, 1933.
9. Prandl, L., Neuere ergebnisse der turbulenzforschung, *Z. VDI*, 77, 1933, 105. (Translated as “Recent results of turbulence research.”).
10. Von Kármán, T., Mechanische Ähnlichkeit und Turbulenz, *Nachrichten von der Gesellschaft der Wissenschofen zu Göttingen*, 1930, Fachgruppe 1, Mathematik, no. 5, pp. 58–76. (“Mechanical similitude and turbulence,” Tech. Mem. N.A.C.A., no. 611, 1931.).
11. Colebrook, C. F. and C. M. White, Experiments with fluid friction in roughened pipes, *Proc. R. Soc. Lond.*, 161, 1937, 367–381.
12. Colebrook, C. F., Turbulent flow in pipes, with particular reference to the transition region between the smooth and rough pipe laws, *J. Inst. Civ. Eng.*, 11, 1938–1939, 133–156.
13. Moody, L. F., Friction factors for pipe flow, *Trans. Am. Soc. Mech. Eng.*, 66, 1944, 671–684.

\* The summing of loss coefficients is restated in Section 5.1 as series flow.