8 FUNDAMENTALS

## 1.4.2 Equation of State of Gases

Because gases exhibit large changes in volume, pressure, or temperature for comparable changes in one or both of the remaining of these three important variables, it has been necessary to formulate a workable expression relating them. The expression is called the equation of state. Two-variable relationships were discovered by Robert Boyle (1627–1691) and by Jacques Charles (1746–1823) and Joseph Gay-Lussac (1778–1850), which were soon combined into the perfect gas law:

$$
PV = mRT,
$$

(1.6a)

where $m =$ mass of the gas, $V$ is the volume, and $R$ is the individual gas constant; or

$$
PV = n\bar{R}T,
$$

(1.6b)

where $n =$ number of mols of gas considered and $\bar{R}$ is the universal gas constant. (In the English system Eq. 1.6a is usually written $PV = wRT$, where $w =$ weight, lb, and the $R$ used is expressed in weight units.)

Equation 1.6 adequately describes real gas behavior when pressure is low with respect to the critical pressure and temperature is high with respect to the critical temperature. However, with increasing pressure or decreasing temperature, or both, this relation departs increasingly from real gas behavior. A coefficient can be added to account for the departure, called the *compressibility factor*:

$$
PV = zmRT,
$$

(1.7)

where $z$ is a function of the temperature and pressure of the gas. Dutch physicist Johannes van der Waals (1837–1923) noted that when $z$ is plotted versus reduced pressure, that is, actual pressure divided by the critical pressure, for constant reduced temperature, that is, actual temperature divided by the critical temperature, the plotted points for any given reduced temperature for most gases fall into a narrow band [4]. If a line is faired through each band for each reduced temperature, a chart called a *compressibility chart* is obtained. A plot of this kind was published by L. C. Nelson and E. F. Obert in 1954 [5]. An example is shown in Figure 1.3 [3].* Many attempts have been made to find an analytic function, an equation of state, to describe this behavior, with varying success. Most of these “real gas” equations of state are limited in range of applicability. Two particularly attractive equations (solutions for $z$), suitable for wide ranges of pressure and temperature, the Redlich–Kwong equation and the Lee–Kesler equation, are described in Appendix D. Scores more are described by Poling et al. [3]. The utility of these equations is illustrated in Chapter 4, “Compressible Flow.”

## 1.5 FLUID VELOCITY

As stated in Section 1.2, velocity (so called; more accurately it would be called speed) is usually considered to be uniform over the cross section of flow. In reality, it is not. The fluid in contact with the conduit wall must be at zero velocity, and velocity ordinarily increases toward the center. The assumption of uniform velocity immensely simplifies fluid flow calculations. There is an inaccuracy introduced by this assumption, but, fortunately, it usually does not affect the confidence level of fluid flow computations. The inaccuracies can be quantified and will be considered in the following chapter.

Another assumption that is usually made is that the velocity is one-dimensional, that is, that radial components of flow velocities are inconsequential. Inaccuracies introduced by this assumption are small and are absorbed by the loss coefficients.

## 1.6 FLOW REGIMES

In the study of fluid flow it has long been recognized that there are two distinct kinds of flow or flow regimes. The first is characterized by preservation of layers or laminae in the flow stream. This kind of flow is called *laminar* or *streamline* flow. In cylindrical conduits the layers are cylindrical, the local velocities are strictly parallel to the conduit axis, and they vary parabolically in velocity from zero at the wall to a maximum at the center. The second is characterized by destruction and mixing of the layers seen in laminar flow, and the local motions in the fluid are chaotic or turbulent. This kind of flow is thus appropriately called *turbulent* flow. In circular conduits the axial velocity distribution is more nearly uniform than it is in laminar flow, although local velocity at the pipe wall is still zero. Laminar and turbulent flow velocity profiles are illustrated in Figure 1.4. Because their effects will be treated in the following chapter you need to know that these two types of flow exist.

\* Large charts of the compressibility factor are available. One is reprinted by Poling et al [3]. Where more precision is desired, a computer program, called *MIPROPS*, which calculates many fluid properties, including density, viscosity, entropy, and acoustic velocity, was published by the National Bureau of Standards (now the National Institute of Standards and Technology) and is available from the Department of Commerce.