# FURTHER READING

Medaugh, F. W. and G. D. Johnson, Investigation of the discharge and coefficients of small circular orifices, *Transactions of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, 10(9), 1940, 422.

Stuart, M. C. and D. R. Yarnell, Fluid flow through two orifices in series(II, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 66, 1944, 387–397.

Rouse, H. and A. Abul-Fetouh, Characteristics of the irrotational flow through axially-symmetric orifices, *Journal of Applied Mechanics, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 17(4), 1950, 421–426.

Landstra, J. A., Quarter-circle orifices, *Transactions of the Institution of Chemical Engineers*, 38, 1960, 26–32.

Bogema, M. and P. L. Monkmeyer, The quadrant edge orifice(a fluid meter for low Reynolds number, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 82, 1960, 729–734.

Bogema, M., B. Spring, and M. V. Ramamoorthy, Quadrant edge orifice performance-effect of upstream velocity distribution, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 84, 1962, 415–418.

Leutheusser, H. J., Flow nozzles with zero beta ratio, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 86, 1964, 538–542.

Lenkei, A., Close Clearance Orifices, *Product Engineering*, April 26, 1965, pp. 57–61.

Ramamoorthy, M. V. and K. Seetharamiah, Quadrant-edge orifice and performance at very high Reynolds numbers, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 88, 1966, 9–13.

Ghazi, H. S., On nonuniform flow characteristics at the vena contracta, *Journal of Basic Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 92(70-FE-34), 1970, 1–6.

Miller, D. S., *Internal Guide to Losses in Pipe and Duct Systems*, The British Hydromechanics Research Association, 1971.

Teyssandier, R. G., Internal separated flows—Expansions, nozzles, and orifices, PhD dissertation, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, R. I., 1973.

Miller, R. W. and O. Kneisel, A comparison between orifice and flow nozzle laboratory data and published coefficients, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 96, 1974, 139–149.

Head, V. P., Improved expansion factors for nozzles, orifices, and variable-area meters, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 96, 1974, 150–157.

Wilson, M. P. Jr. and R. G. Teyssandier, The paradox of the vena contracta, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 97, 1975, pp. 366–371.

Nigro, F. E. B., A. B. Strong, and S. A. Alpay, A numerical study of the laminar viscous incompressible flow through a pipe orifice, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 100, 1978, 467–472.

Sparrow, E. M., J. W. Ramsey, and S. C. Lau, Flow and pressure characteristics downstream of a segmental blockage in a turbulent pipe flow, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 101, 1979, 200–207.

Lienhard, J. H. V and J. H. IV Lienhard, Velocity coefficients for free jets from sharp-edged orifices, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 106, 1984, 13.

Grose, R. D., Orifice contraction coefficient for inviscid incompressible flow, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 107, 1985, 36–43.

Bullen, P. R., D. J. Cheeseman, L. A. Hussain, and A. E. Ruffell, The Determination of pipe contraction pressure loss coefficients for incompressible turbulent flow, *International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow*, 8(2), 1987, 111–118.

Bullen, P. R., D. J. Cheeseman, and L. A. Hussain, The effects of inlet sharpness on the pipe contraction loss coefficient, *International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow*, 9(4), 1988, 431–433.

Andrews, K. A. and R. H. Sabersky, Flow through an orifice from a transverse stream, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 112, 1990, 524–526.

Faramarzi, J. and E. Logan, Reattachment length behind a single roughness element in turbulent pipe flow, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 113, 1991, 712–714.

Brundrett, E., Prediction of pressure drop for incompressible flow through screens, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 115, 1993, 239–242.

Brower, W. B., Jr., E. Eisler, E. J. Filkorn, J. Gonenc, C. Plati, and J. Stagnitti, On the compressible flow through an orifice, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 115, 1993, 660–664.

Agarwal, N. K., Mean separation and reattachment in turbulent pipe flow due to an orifice plate, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 116, 1994, 373–376.