26 INCOMPRESSIBLE FLOW

![FIGURE 3.1. Nikuradse’s uniform sand grain results [8].](figures/page_0041_fig_01.png)
<!-- Description: Graph of friction factor versus Reynolds number with relative roughness curves, showing laminar, smooth, transition zone smooth to rough, and rough zone. -->

**FIGURE 3.1.** Nikuradse’s uniform sand grain results [8].

Two British scientists, Cyril F. Colebrook (1910–1997) and Cedric M. White (1898–1993), showed experimentally in 1937 [11] that Nikuradse’s results were due to the uniformity of roughness in his pipes. Artificially roughened pipes with *nonuniform* sand grains duplicated very well the behavior of commercial pipes. Prandtl’s boundary layer theory, which held that there is always a laminar flow boundary layer that thins as Reynolds number increases, explained the reason for the difference. In the critical zone, general laminar flow breaks up into a turbulent core and a laminar boundary layer next to the pipe wall. At this point in Nikuradse’s pipes the uniform sand grains remained submerged in the boundary layer and were hidden to the turbulent core flow, and the friction factor was the same as for smooth pipe. With increasing Reynolds number, the boundary layer thinned until the sand grains began to emerge, and the friction factor transitioned from the smooth pipe value to the rough pipe value. With commercial pipe, on the other hand, the largest of the various sizes of protuberances were never submerged in the laminar boundary layer after the critical Reynolds number was passed and so the flow behaved somewhat like that for rough pipe from the beginning. For this reason the friction factor remained higher than for smooth pipe, but because many of the smaller protuberances remained submerged, it declined on increasing Reynolds number somewhat like that for smooth pipe until the rough pipe value was reached.

Upon a serendipitous suggestion by White, Colebrook [12] proposed an empirical combination of the Prandtl and von Kármán formulas (Eqs. 3.4 and 3.5) obtained by *inverting and adding* the arguments of the logarithms. The resulting expression modeled very accurately commercial pipe behavior in the turbulent regime. Their formula, published in 1939, is:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}} = -2 \log_{10} \left( \frac{\epsilon}{3.7D} + \frac{2.51}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}} \right).
\qquad (3.6)
$$

(Note that Prandtl’s smooth pipe formula is slightly out of context when used in this formula; nevertheless, we