# 9

# ENTRANCES

Pressure loss at the entrance into a straight pipe or passage of constant cross section is governed by several parameters: the distance from the pipe edge to the wall in which it is installed; the thickness of the inlet pipe edge; the angle at which the pipe is mounted into the wall; and, most definitely, rounding or beveling of the edge of the pipe inlet.

The entrance is a special form of contraction (see Chapter 10). A most important parameter for contractions is $\beta$, the ratio of downstream diameter $d_2$ to upstream diameter $d_1$. In the case of an entrance, however, the upstream diameter $d_1$ goes to infinity so that $\beta$ goes to zero. With this key fact, loss coefficient equations developed in Chapter 10 for contractions can be adapted to various entrance configurations.*

It was long accepted that the loss coefficient of a sharp-edged flush-mounted entrance takes on a value of 0.50, or even as low a value as 0.43. Analyses supporting these values took into account expansion loss from measured or theoretical contraction factors, but did not account for loss due to the onrush of fluid into the pipe to form the contraction. Early test data seemed to support these values. This may have been because (1) the entrance edges may not have been truly sharp,$^\dagger$ (2) test apparatus and test methods were not refined, and (3) of preconceived notions as to what the test results should be. In any case, it is demonstrated in Chapter 10 that the loss coefficient for a sharp-edged contraction—a flush-mounted, sharp-edged entrance in this case—can take on values higher than the long accepted values.$^\ddagger$ Accordingly, certain test results and formulas in this chapter are adjusted upwards to conform to a currently accepted value of 0.57.

## 9.1 SHARP-EDGED ENTRANCE

The loss that arises from a sharp-edged entrance may be thought of as arising out of three effects. The first is the contraction of the main flow into the pipe and subsequent separation from the pipe wall leading up to a vena contracta. The second is the expansion loss of the main flow from the vena contracta to reattachment at the pipe wall. The third is the readjustment of the velocity profile downstream of the vena contracta and beyond the reattachment point.

### 9.1.1 Flush Mounted

A sharp-edged entrance is illustrated in Figure 9.1. The following expression was developed in Chapter 10 for the loss coefficient of a sharp-edged contraction in a straight pipe:

$$
K_2 = 0.0696(1-\beta^5)\lambda^2 + (\lambda - 1)^2,
\qquad (10.4,\ \text{repeated})
$$

\* The loss coefficient equations developed in Chapter 13 for orifices can also be adapted to various entrance configurations as evident in Section 9.4.

$^\dagger$ See discussion regarding edge sharpness of orifices in Section 13.3.1.

$^\ddagger$ The test data of Benedict, et al. [1] clearly show this.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

89