NONCIRCULAR ORIFICES 149

## TABLE 13.2. Loss Coefficient $K_o$ for a Thick-Edged Orifice in a Wall

| $t/d_o$ | 0 | 0.1 | 0.2 | 0.3 | 0.4 | 0.5 | 0.6 | 0.7 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $K_o$ | 2.81 | 2.81 | 2.78 | 2.71 | 2.62 | 2.50 | 2.35 | 2.19 |

| $t/d_o$ | 0.8 | 0.9 | 1.0 | 1.1 | 1.2 | 1.3 | $\geqq 1.4$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| $K_o$ | 2.02 | 1.87 | 1.75 | 1.66 | 1.60 | 1.58 | $1.57 + \mathrm{f}(f_o)$, |

For thickness $t$ greater than $1.4d_o$, the loss coefficient can be determined from the following equation, where $f_o$ is the friction factor in the cylindrical surface of the orifice:

$$
K_o = 1.57 + f_o \left( \frac{t}{d_o} - 1.4 \right) \qquad (t/d_o \geqq 1.4).
$$

Loss coefficients of thick-edged orifices in a wall as a function of $t/d_o$ are shown in Table 13.2.

## 13.6 MULTIHOLE ORIFICES

The important nondimensional parameter for multihole orifices is the porosity $\phi$, the ratio of the total cross-sectional area of the orifice holes to the total cross-sectional area of the duct. The relationship between porosity and diameter ratio $\beta$ is given by:

$$
\phi = \left( \frac{d_o}{d_1} \right)^2 = \beta^2 \quad \text{or} \quad \beta = \sqrt{\phi}.
$$

More often than not, the geometry of the orifice holes is the same or similar. In that case, simply substitute $\sqrt{\phi}$ for $\beta$ in the applicable loss coefficient equation.

Perforated plate may be treated in this manner. Typically, the perforations are punched into the plate. The punch produces slightly rounded or beveled edges on the side of the plate that the punch enters, and produces sharp, outward projecting edges on the side of the plate that the punch exits.* Thus the pressure drop will depend on the direction of flow through the perforated plate. If flow is to enter through the sharp, outward projecting side of the plate, treat it as a thick-edged orifice. If flow is to enter through the rounded or beveled side of the plate, treat it as a rounded or beveled orifice. It may be difficult, if not impossible; to accurately measure the amount of rounding or beveling so judgment may be necessary.

If the geometry of the holes is greatly dissimilar, consider treating them as parallel paths (see Section 5.2).

## 13.7 NONCIRCULAR ORIFICES

The orifice loss coefficient equations in this chapter were primarily derived from data on symmetrical circular holes in circular passages. However, they apply quite well for square holes and passages, and for small departures from symmetry. They can be applied to other odd flow shapes and to larger departures from symmetry with reasonable accuracy when specific data are unavailable. Substitute $\sqrt{\phi}$ for $\beta$ in the various orifice loss coefficient equations as described in Section 13.6 above.

\* You can easily determine the entry and exit sides by running your fingers over the surface.