## FURTHER READING

*Transactions of the American Society of Civil Engineers,* Paper No. 911, Presented at the Meeting of September 4th, 1901.

Eustice, J., Flow of water in curved pipes, *Proceedings Royal Society of London, Series A,* 84, 1910, 107–118.

Eustice, J., Experiments on stream-line motion in curved pipes, *Proceedings Royal Society of London, Series A,* 85, 1911, 119–131.

White, C. M., Streamline flow through curved pipes, *Proceedings of the Royal Society, London,* A123, 1929, 645–663.

Keulegan, G. H. and K. H. Beij, Pressure loss for fluid flow in curved pipes, *Journal of Research of the National Bureau of Standards,* 18, January 1937, 89–115.

Beij, K. H., Pressure loss for fluid flow in 90° pipe bends, *Journal of Research of the National Bureau of Standards,* 21, July 1938, 1–17.

Freeman, J. R., *Experiments Upon the Flow of Water in Pipes and Pipe Fittings Made At Nashua, New Hampshire, June 28 to October 22, 1892,* The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, 1941.

Vazsonyi, A. and D. Branches, Pressure loss in elbows and duct branches, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers,* 1966, April 1944, 177–182.

Kubair, V. and N. R. Kuloor, Flow of Newtonian fluids in Archimedean spiral tube coils: Correlation of the laminar, transition & turbulent flows, *Indian Journal of Technology,* 4, January 1966, 3–8.

Zanker, K. J. and T. E. Brock, A review of the literature on bend flow through closed conduit bends, *The British Hydromechanics Research Laboratory,* TN 901, July 1967.

Srinivasan, P. S., S. S. Nandapurkar, and F. A. Holland, Pressure drop and heat transfer in coils, *The Chemical Engineer,* (218), May 1968, 113–119.

Sprenger, H., Pressure head loss in 90° bends for tubes or ducting of rectangular cross-section, *Schweizerische Bauzeitung,* 87(13), March 27, 1969, 233–231 (in German).

Srinivasan, P. S., S. S. Nandapurkar, and F. A. Holland, Friction factor for coils, *Transactions of the Institution of Chemical Engineers,* 48, 1970, 156–161.

Sankaraiah, M. and Y. V. N. Rao, Analysis of steady laminar flow of an incompressible Newtonian fluid through curved pipes of small curvature, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers,* 95, March 1973, 75–80.

Smith, F. T., Steady motion within a curved pipe, *Proceedings of the Royal Society, London,* A347, 1976, 345–370.

Singh, R. P. and P. Mishra, Friction factor for Newtonian and non-Newtonian fluid flow in curved pipes, *Journal of Chemical Engineering of Japan,* 13(4), 1980, 275–280.

Taylor, A. M. K. P., J. H. Whitelaw, and M. Yianneskis, Curved ducts with strong secondary motion: Velocity measurements of developing laminar and turbulent flow, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers,* 104, September 1982, 350–359.

Takami, T. and K. Susou, Flow through curved pipes with elliptic cross section, *Bulletin of the Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers,* 27(228), June 1984, 1176–1181.

Daskopoulos, P. and A. M. Lenhoff, Flow in curved ducts: Bifurcation structure for stationary ducts, *Journal of Fluid Mechanics,* 203, 1989, 125–148.

Belaidi, A., M. W. Johnson, and J. A. C. Humphrey, Flow instability in a curved duct of rectangular cross section, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers,* 114, December 1992, 585–592.

Shimizu, Y., Y. Futaki, and S. S. Martin, Secondary flow and hydraulic losses within sinuous conduits of rectangular cross section, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers,* 114, December 1992, 593–600.

Hamakiotes, C. C. and S. A. Berger, Periodic flow through curved tubes: The effect of the frequency parameter, *Journal of Fluid Mechanics,* 210, 1997, 353–370.

Graf, E. and S. Neti, Two-phase pressure drop in right angle bends, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers,* 122, December 2000, 761–768.