84 SURFACE FRICTION

## TABLE 8.2. Friction Factor as a Function of Pipe Size, Condition, and Reynolds Number

**Friction Factor for Commercial Carbon Steel Pipe**  
**(Percent Increase)**

| Nominal Pipe Size (Schedule 40) | New, Clean Pipe |  |  | Moderately Corroded Pipe |  |  | Heavily Corroded Pipe$^a$ |  |  |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
|  | $\varepsilon = 0.000150$ feet |  |  | $\varepsilon = 0.00130$ feet |  |  | $\varepsilon = 0.0100$ feet |  |  |
|  | $10^4$ | $10^6$ | $10^8$ | $10^4$ | $10^6$ | $10^8$ | $10^4$ | $10^6$ | $10^8$ |
| 1" | 0.0334 | 0.0227 | 0.0225 | 0.0478 (43%) | 0.0436 (92%) | 0.0436 (94%) | 0.1112 (233%) | 0.1097 (383%) | 0.1097 (387%) |
| 2" | 0.0322 | 0.0193 | 0.0190 | 0.0405 (26%) | 0.0346 (79%) | 0.0345 (82%) | 0.0788 (145%) | 0.0768 (254%) | 0.0768 (304%) |
| 4" | 0.0316 | 0.0168 | 0.0163 | 0.0363 (15%) | 0.0283 (68%) | 0.0282 (73%) | 0.0600 (90%) | 0.0571 (239%) | 0.0570 (250%) |
| 8" | 0.0312 | 0.0149 | 0.0141 | 0.0337 (8%) | 0.0235 (57%) | 0.0233 (65%) | 0.0480 (54%) | 0.0438 (193%) | 0.0437 (210%) |
| 16" | 0.0311 | 0.0137 | 0.0124 | 0.0324 (4%) | 0.0201 (47%) | 0.0198 (60%) | 0.0410 (32%) | 0.0353 (157%) | 0.0352 (183%) |
| 32" | 0.0310 | 0.0128 | 0.0109 | 0.0317 (2%) | 0.0173 (35%) | 0.0168 (54%) | 0.0363 (17%) | 0.0284 (122%) | 0.0283 (160%) |

$^a$ Values in italics may be out of range of Equation 8.3.

size and Reynolds number. The calculated results, presented in Table 8.2, reveal that increase in surface roughness due to age and usage can result in significant increase in friction factor. It is evident that increased surface roughness becomes more important as Reynolds number increases, and becomes less important as pipe diameter increases. The calculated results in Table 8.2 provide an appreciation and understanding of these relationships.

## 8.6.3 Inherent Margin

Piping system design practice often provides pressure drop margin and this margin may be sufficient to accommodate increased pressure loss due to increased surface roughness.

1. At least initially, the absolute roughness of the pipe walls may be less than the assumed value.
2. Historical sources have often provided conservative loss coefficient data for pipe fittings.
3. A conservatively large pipe size is utilized; for example, a 10" pipe size (or 11", which is not available) may have been sufficient, but a 12" pipe size is selected.
4. Actual equipment (pumps, valves, etc.) performance may exceed specified performance.
5. Surface friction accounts for only a portion of total system resistance.
6. The designer arbitrarily chose to increase absolute roughness in initial pressure loss calculations.

Nonetheless, the designer is advised to search the literature for pipe aging data specific to her or his application, and possibly add contingency depending on the circumstances, the scope of the work, and the need for being conservative in design.

## 8.6.4 Loss of Flow Area

The encrustation of pipe with scale, dirt, sludge, tubercules, or other foreign bodies results in a reduction of pipe diameter (and flow area) in addition to increase in surface roughness. By and large, the effect of loss of flow area is much less significant than increased surface roughness and may be ignored except in extreme cases.

## 8.6.5 Machined Surfaces

The absolute roughness of newly machined or otherwise manufactured surfaces (other than pipe and tubing) may be taken to be twice the root mean square (RMS) surface finish. Thus the absolute roughness of a surface machined to a finish of 250 micro-inch is taken to be 0.000500 in. There is no certain basis for applying this rule except that it appears to be reasonable and seems to work well. Take into account the possible effects of age and usage on machined surfaces just as you would for pipe.