226 FLOW-INDUCED VIBRATION

to the free stream. If contained in a cavity, sound waves reflect off the cavity walls. Acoustic resonance has produced intense sound pressure levels in tubular heat exchangers that have damaged heat exchanger shells.

When a tube in a tube array in a cross flow is displaced from its equilibrium position, a fluid force, owing to the asymmetry of the flow field, may be exerted on the tube and the tube may vibrate with a large amplitude. In closely spaced tube arrays often used in heat exchangers, the distinct vortex shedding frequency degenerates into broadband turbulence, which buffets tubes. Such vibrations can be classified as axial flow induces of cross flow induces, depending on the incident angle of the incoming flow with respect to the cylinder's axes.

Damping of structures, avoidance of resonance, and the streamlining of structures are the primary mechanisms for limiting FIV.*

## 21.3 WATER HAMMER$^\dagger$

Pressure changes in a closed conduit produced by changes in fluid flow are called *fluid hammer* (or, more generally, *water hammer*). The fluid is usually a liquid, but sometimes can be a gas. The pressure change can create significant loads on pipe, its components, and its supports.

Velocity and pressure changes or disturbances can be expressed as $V_d - V_i$, and $P_d - P_i$, where the subscripts $i$ and $d$ designate initial and disturbed values, respectively. If the velocity of a fluid in a pipe is disturbed, it causes a corresponding disturbance of pressure, related by the classical water hammer relationship:

$$
P_d - P_i = \frac{A_{pipe}\rho_w (V_d - V_i)}{g},
$$

where $A_{pipe}$ is the speed of sound of the fluid in the pipe, and $\rho_w$ is the density of the fluid.

A flow *disturbance time* can be identified with occurrences such as full or partial valve opening or closure, pipe rupture, or the period of cyclic pulses caused by hydraulic machinery. If a flow disturbance at the system boundary occurs over a time interval of the same order as that required for an acoustic wave to pass through the system, propagation will be important. Most water hammer problems involve a pipe section of arbitrary length $L$. The pipe *acoustic response time* $t_{ar}$, allowing for acoustic propagation throughout its length, is given as

$$
t_{ar} = \frac{L}{A_{pipe}}.
$$

If the velocity of water or other fluid in a pipe is suddenly diminished or stopped, the energy given up by the fluid will be divided between compressing the liquid itself, stretching the pipe walls, and frictional resistance to wave propagation. Water hammer is manifest as a series of shocks, sounding like hammer blows, which may have sufficient magnitude to rupture the pipe or damage connected equipment. It may be caused by the nearly instantaneous or too rapid closing of a valve in the line, or by an equivalent stoppage of flow that would take place with the sudden failure of electricity supply to a motor-driven pump.

The shock pressure is not concentrated at the valve, and if rupture occurs it may take place near the valve simply because it acts there first. The pressure wave due to water hammer travels back upstream to the inlet of the pipe; there, it reverses and surges back and forth through the pipe. This cycle would continue indefinitely were it not for viscosity of the fluid and friction against the pipe walls.

The excess pressure due to water hammer is additive to the normal pressure in the pipe. Complete stoppage of flow is not necessary to produce water hammer as any sudden change in velocity will create it to a greater or lesser degree.

Under normal conditions the flow through the pipe is steady, having a velocity $V$ past all sections. If the valve is made to close instantaneously, the particles of fluid in immediate proximity to it will have their velocity at once reduced to zero. If the whole mass of fluid in the pipe were inelastic (rigid) and contained in pipe walls that were also inelastic, then all the particles of fluid would likewise be instantaneously brought to rest and the pressure against the valve and all through the pipe would be infinite. That the pressure does not become infinite is due to the compressibility of the fluid and to the elasticity of the pipe wall.

Accounting for compressibility of the fluid and the elasticity of the pipe wall, it can be shown that the velocity of the pressure wave (or the speed of sound) of the fluid in the pipe is$^\ddagger$:

$$
A_{pipe} = \sqrt{\frac{144gB}{\rho_w}} \sqrt{\frac{1}{1 + \dfrac{B}{E}\dfrac{d}{t_w}}}, \qquad (21.1)
$$

where B is the bulk modulus of the fluid (B is about 300,000 pounds per square inch for fresh water at

\* See previous footnote.  
$\dagger$ This section on water hammer is largely taken from Russell [1] and Crocker [2].  
$\ddagger$ In International System of Units (SI), delete 144 from the equation.