# APPENDIX B

## PIPE SIZE DATA

Pipe sizes can be confusing because the terminology may relate to historical dimensions that are loosely related to actual dimensions. Early on, pipe was sized by inside diameter. This practice was abandoned to improve compatibility with pipe fittings that must usually fit the outside diameter of the pipe, but it has had a lasting impact on modern standards around the world. Presently, the pipe size designation generally includes two numbers: one that indicates the outside diameter or nominal diameter and another that identifies the wall thickness.

Historically, only a small selection of pipe wall thickness was in use: standard weight (Std), extra strong (XS), and double extra strong (XXS), based on the iron pipe size system of the day. In 1927, the American Standards Association created a system of schedule numbers that designated steel pipe wall thickness based on smaller steps between sizes. In the mid-twentieth century, stainless steel pipe—which permitted the use of thinner walls with much less risk of failure due to corrosion—came into more common use. Consequently, schedules 5S and 10S were created in 1949, and other “S” sizes followed.

Pipe is specified by its nominal inside diameter through 12 in and smaller. In this range, nominal size refers to the approximate inside diameter of a schedule 40 (or standard weight) pipe. Pipe 14 in and larger is specified by the actual outside diameter. For a given pipe size, the outside diameter is the same for all weights and schedules. In North America, pipe size is specified by Nominal Pipe Size (NPS) and is based on inches. The European version is called Diametre Nominal (DN) and is based on millimeters. Japan has its own set of standard pipe sizes, called Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) pipe, that are based on millimeters.

Many different national and international standards exist for pipe sizes, including American Petroleum Institute (API) 5 L, American National Standards Institute (ANSI)/American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) B32.10M and B36.19M in the United States, and British Standard (BS) 1600 and BS European Standard (EN) 10255 in the United Kingdom and Europe. Manufacturing standards commonly require a test of chemical composition and a series of mechanical strength tests for each heat of pipe.

Pipe is made of a wide variety of materials including ceramic, fiberglass, metals, concrete, and plastic. Metallic pipes are commonly made of steel or iron, such as carbon steel, stainless steel, galvanized steel, cast iron, and ductile iron. Inconel, chrome moly, and titanium alloys are used in high temperature and pressure applications. Copper and aluminum pipe are frequently employed.

The following NPS and DN table gives selected data for commercial pipe.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

245