# 22

# TEMPERATURE RISE

We learned in Chapter 2 that head loss is a loss of useful energy by conversion of mechanical energy to heat energy, and that in liquid (or incompressible) systems, the heat energy is usually of no interest. Now we consider some situations where the heat energy may be of interest.

Head loss in the English system can be expressed as:

$$
H_L = JU_2 - JU_1 + \frac{E_W}{\dot{w}},
$$

where $E_W$ is the heat energy passing *out* of the liquid through the walls of the pipe.*  
This offers confirmation that head loss is not a loss of total energy but rather a conversion of mechanical energy into heat energy, part of which may leave the fluid, the remainder serving to increase its internal energy $U$. Assuming that all heat generated remains in the liquid (letting heat flow $E_W$ through the walls of the flow system equal zero), the temperature rise $\Delta T$ due to head loss can be calculated as:

$$
\Delta T = \frac{H_L}{778c_P} = \frac{\Delta P}{778\rho_w c_P}.
$$

As an example, calculate the temperature rise of water initially at 200 psia and 120°F undergoing a head loss of 100 psid. From Table A.1, the initial density of the water is 61.71 lb/ft$^3$. The heat capacity $c_P$ of water can be taken as 1.0 Btu/lb-°F:

$$
\Delta T = \frac{144 \times 100}{778 \times 61.71 \times 1.0} = 0.3^\circ\mathrm{F}.
$$

A 0.3°F increase in water temperature produces little change in density, viscosity, and vapor pressure and can be neglected in most engineering applications.

In a pump, friction and work of compression increase the temperature of the liquid as it flows from suction to discharge. The temperature rise $\Delta T$ due to pump operation is$^\dagger$:

$$
\Delta T = 2545 \frac{bhp}{c_P W} - \frac{E_L}{c_P} = \frac{H_P}{778c_P\eta} - \frac{E_L}{c_P} = \frac{\Delta P_P}{778c_P\rho_w\eta} - \frac{E_L}{c_P},
$$

(22.1)

where

$bhp$  is brake horsepower of the pump;  
$E_L$  is heat loss from the pump through radiation, bearing, and external seal losses;  
$H_P$  is pump head;  
$\Delta P_P$  is pump differential pressure;  
$c_P$  is heat capacity of the liquid;  
$W$  is pump flow rate;  
$\rho_w$  is density of the liquid; and  
$\eta$  is pump efficiency.

\* If heat energy passes *into* the liquid, $E_W$ will be negative or will appear on the opposite side of the equation.

$^\dagger$ Equation 22.1 was derived from pump temperature rise equations given by Stepanoff [1] and by Karassik et al. [2].

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

231