# 2

# CONSERVATION EQUATIONS

This chapter will consider the equations for conservation of mass, energy and momentum, velocity profiles, and correction factors for momentum and energy. In general, the English gravitational system uses weight flow rate $(\dot{w})$, and the International System of Units (SI) uses mass flow rate $(\dot{m})$.

## 2.1 CONSERVATION OF MASS

The continuity equation is simply a statement that there is as much fluid flowing out of a system under consideration as there is flowing into it. It assumes that mass is conserved and that fluid is not being stored or released from storage within the system. The equations for weight rate of flow and mass rate of flow are:

$$
\dot{w} = AV\rho_w,
\qquad\qquad (2.1a)
$$

$$
\dot{m} = AV\rho_m.
\qquad\qquad (2.1b)
$$

When the continuity equation holds, the inlet flow rate is equal to the outlet flow rate, so that

$$
A_1V_1(\rho_w)_1 = A_2V_2(\rho_w)_2,
\qquad\qquad (2.2a)
$$

$$
A_1V_1(\rho_m)_1 = A_2V_2(\rho_m)_2.
\qquad\qquad (2.2b)
$$

These equations are expressions of the *continuity equation*.

In these equations it is customary to assume that the velocity profile is flat, that is, the velocity in the fluid flowing in a conduit is the same everywhere in the cross section. The velocity that accounts for all the weight flux (or mass flux) across the cross section of the conduit is the *average velocity*.

The velocity profile is, of course, *not* flat across the cross section! Does this assumption therefore cause an error in the continuity equation? No, because we use the same relation to define the average velocity as to determine the weight flux through the cross section. The same cannot be said, however, for the momentum flux or the energy flux as we shall discover in the next sections.

## 2.2 CONSERVATION OF MOMENTUM

The momentum equation is a statement that a fluid stream, as it relates to fluid flow when acted upon by external forces whose sum is not zero, must acquire a change in velocity. The amount of this force may be found by use of the momentum equation. It is thus an application of Newton’s second law of motion (Eq. 1.1).

Consider an axisymmetric reducing flow passage as illustrated in Figure 2.1. Assume that velocity distribution is uniform at any cross section of the stream tube. $P_1A_1$ is the axial force acting on the fluid in the control volume owing to absolute pressure $P_1$ acting over area $A_1$; $P_2A_2$ is the axial force owing to absolute pressure $P_2$ acting over area $A_2$; and $F$ is the apparent residual force owing to the diminishing stream pressure acting over the axial projection of the outer control volume boundary and to the frictional resistance on the surface of

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

13