# FURTHER READING

McDonald, A. T., R. W. Fox, and R. V. Van Dewoestine, Effects of swirling inlet flow on pressure recovery in conical diffusers, *American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics Journal*, 9(10), 1971, 2014–2018.

Runchal, A. K., Mass transfer investigation in turbulent flow downstream of a sudden enlargement of a circular pipe for very high Schmidt numbers, *International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer*, 14, 1971, 781–791.

Back, L. H. and E. J. Roschke, Shear-layer flow regimes and wave instabilities and reattachment lengths downstream of an abrupt circular channel expansion, *Journal of Applied Mechanics, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 94E, 1972, 677–881.

Benedict, R. P., A. R. Gleed, and R. D. Schulte, Air and water studies on a diffuser-modified flow nozzle, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 95, 1973, 169–179.

Smith, C. R. and S. J. Kline, An experimental investigation of the transitory stall regime in two-dimensional diffusers, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 95, 1973, 1–5.

Teyssandier, R. G., Internal separated flows—Expansions, nozzles, and orifices, PhD dissertation, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, R. I., 1973.

Teyssandier, R. G. and M. P. Wilson, An analysis of flow through sudden enlargements in pipes, *Journal of Fluid Mechanics*, 64, Part 1, 1974, 85–95.

Benedict, R. P., J. S. Wyler, J. A. Dudek, and A. R. Gleed, Generalized flow across an abrupt enlargement, *Journal of Engineering for Power, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 98, 1976, 327–334.

Moon, L. F. and G. Rudinger, Velocity distribution in an abruptly expanding circular duct, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 99, 1977, 226.

Lohmann, R. P., S. J. Markowski, and E. T. Brookman, Swirling flow through annular diffusers with conical walls, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 101, 1979, 224–229.

Webb, A. I. C., Head loss of a sudden expansion, *International Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education, Institution of Mechanical Engineers, University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology*, 8(4), 1980, 173–176.

Dekam, E. I. and J. R. Calvert, Pressure losses in sudden transitions between square and rectangular ducts of the same cross-sectional area, *International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow*, 9(1), 1988, 2–7.

Hallett, W. L. H., A simple model for the critical swirl in a swirling sudden expansion flow, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 110, 1988, 155–160.

Stieglmeir, M., C. Tropea, N. Weiser, and W. Nitsche, Experimental investigation of the flow through axisymmetric expansions, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 111, 1989, 464–471.

Ramamurthy, A. S., R. Balchandar, and H. S. Govina Ram, Some characteristics of flow past backward facing steps, including cavitation effects, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 113, 1991, 278–284.

Kwong, A. H. M. and A. P. Dowling, Unsteady flow in diffusers, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 116, 1994, 842–847.

Papadopoulos, G. and M. V. Ötügen, A modified Borda-Carnot relation for the prediction of maximum recovery pressure in planar sudden expansion flows, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 120, 1998, 400.