# 19

# THREADED FITTINGS

Pressure loss through threaded (or screwed) pipe fittings is generally higher than through welded, or otherwise more smoothly connected pipe fittings. The internal geometry of threaded pipe fittings is discontinuous, creating additional pressure loss in the form of a partial expansion followed by a contraction. The actual loss is subject to fabrication and installation differences. The edge of the downstream pipe may have burrs or may be chamfered to some extent. The insertion length of the threaded pipe into the upstream and downstream sockets of the fitting can be widely variable.

## 19.1 REDUCERS: CONTRACTING

The contraction loss through concentric and eccentric threaded pipe reducers (see Fig. 19.1) is much higher than for a welded pipe reducer. The internal geometry creates additional pressure loss in the form of an incomplete sudden expansion preceding a gradual contraction, followed by a somewhat sudden expansion into the downstream pipe.

In practice, the initial sudden expansion is not pronounced because of the short length. All in all, it is reasonable, and most likely conservative, to model the loss simply as a sharp-edged contraction (see Section 10.1). Thus, the loss coefficient based on the downstream velocity head may be computed as:

$$
K_2 \approx 0.0696(1-\beta^5)\lambda^2 + (\lambda-1)^2,
$$

(10.4, repeated)

where $\lambda$ is given by:

$$
\lambda = 1 + 0.622(1-0.215\beta^2-0.785\beta^5),
$$

(10.3, repeated)

and where $\beta$ is the ratio of the inside diameter of the outlet pipe to the inside diameter of the inlet pipe. Surface friction loss is small and may be ignored. There is some question as to whether eccentric reducers produce more head loss than do concentric reducers. When conservatism is desired, consider adding 20% to the sharp-edged contraction loss coefficient values for eccentric reducers.

## 19.2 REDUCERS: EXPANDING

Concentric and eccentric threaded pipe reducers in the expanding mode are shown in Figure 19.2. The pressure loss is much higher for threaded joints than for butt-welded joints. The internal flow path is discontinuous, creating additional pressure loss in the form of an initial sudden expansion into a more or less ineffective diffuser section, followed by a somewhat sudden contraction.

Simply treating the configuration as a sudden expansion ignores the added resistance to flow due to the somewhat abrupt contraction into the downstream pipe. Adding a multiplier to the sudden expansion equation should provide reasonable results. Thus, the loss coefficient $K_1$ based on the upstream velocity head may be computed as:

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

213