# PART III

# FLOW PHENOMENA

## PROLOGUE

There are a number of flow phenomena that can affect the performance of piping systems. In Part III, we investigate several interesting phenomena: cavitation, flow-induced vibration, temperature rise, and flow to run full. The phenomena are related to occurrences in the nuclear power industry. Of course, the information can be applied to flow conditions that may exist in any industry.

The phenomenon of cavitation is of great importance in the design and operation of hydraulic equipment. In Chapter 20, we study its nature and learn how to design and analyze piping systems to avoid its potentially damaging effects.

A brief categorization of flow-induced vibration in piping systems is presented in Chapter 21. Water hammer and column separation can create significant loads on pipe, its components, and its supports. Ways and means to prevent or mitigate such events are presented.

We learned in Chapter 2 that head loss is a loss of useful energy by conversion of mechanical energy to heat energy, and that in liquid (or incompressible) systems, the heat energy is usually of no consequence. In Chapter 22, we consider some situations where the heat energy may be of interest in liquid systems.

Whether or not horizontal flow passages or openings run full at low flow rates may be an important design consideration. This topic is treated in Chapter 23.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide,* First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

217