78 SURFACE FRICTION

make a conservative selection of friction factor when pipe flow operates within the critical zone.

## 8.1.3 Turbulent Flow Region

Turbulent flow occurs more frequently in engineering applications, hence the greater interest in this flow region. Whereas the friction factor is independent of surface roughness in laminar flow, roughness is of fundamental importance in turbulent flow except in the case of smooth pipes.

### 8.1.3.1 Smooth Pipes

For turbulent flow, if the surface roughness is very slight, as for glass tubes, drawn metal tubing, or so-called perfectly smooth pipes, the friction factor is essentially a function of Reynolds number only.* Analytical and experimental work in the early 1930s led to the following implicit formula for friction factor for turbulent flow in smooth pipes:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}} = -2 \log_{10} \frac{2.51}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}}.
\qquad (3.4,\mathrm{repeated})
$$

Squaring and inverting yields:

$$
f = \left[ 2 \log_{10} \left( \frac{2.51}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}} \right) \right]^{-2}.
\qquad (8.1)
$$

### 8.1.3.2 Rough Pipes

Also in the early 1930s, analytical and experimental work for rough pipe in the fully turbulent region, where friction factor is no longer a function of Reynolds number, resulted in the following formula:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}} = -2 \log_{10} \frac{\varepsilon}{3.7D},
\qquad (3.5,\mathrm{repeated})
$$

where $\varepsilon$ (or $e$) is the *surface roughness*, or more aptly, the *absolute roughness*, of the pipe walls, and the ratio $\varepsilon/D$ (or $e/d$) is termed the *relative roughness* of the pipe. Squaring and inverting Equation 3.5 yields:

$$
f = \left[ 2 \log_{10} \left( \frac{\varepsilon}{3.7D} \right) \right]^{-2}.
\qquad (8.2)
$$

## 8.2 THE COLEBROOK-WHITE EQUATION

If solutions to the equations for turbulent flow friction factor in smooth and rough pipes are plotted on a single graph, a noticeably sharp intersection between the two regions is apparent. In reality, Nikuradse’s artificially roughened pipe results show a jump from the laminar friction factor directly to the smooth pipe friction factor followed by a gradual transition to the rough pipe friction factor (Fig. 3.1), whereas actual commercial pipes do not show this kind of jump. Instead, commercial pipes show a jump from the laminar friction factor to a point *above* the rough pipe friction factor, then, on increasing Reynolds numbers, the friction factor gradually settles down to the rough pipe number. Colebrook and White [1] showed experimentally that this behavior is due to commercial pipe’s randomly sized roughness protuberances (as opposed to Nikuradse’s uniform roughness imparted by the uniform sand grains he used to roughen his pipes), and their formula mimics this behavior, albeit not analytically, but empirically. Building on their own work and on the work of other researchers in the 1930s, Colebrook and White [2] developed an expression that bridged this intersection quite well:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}} = -2 \log_{10} \left( \frac{\varepsilon}{3.7\,D} + \frac{2.51}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}} \right).
\qquad (3.6,\mathrm{repeated})
$$

It is worthy of note that, while the friction factor is not available explicitly in the Colebrook-White equation, solution by a trial-and-error method is very easy in a computer program. Squaring and inverting Equation 3.6 yields:

$$
f = \left[ 2 \log_{10} \left( \frac{\varepsilon}{3.7D} + \frac{2.51}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}} \right) \right]^{-2}
$$

$$
= \left[ 2 \log_{10} \left( \frac{e}{3.7d} + \frac{2.51}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}} \right) \right]^{-2}.
\qquad (8.3)
$$

If a guessed friction factor, say 0.02, is introduced on the right side of the equation and the equation solved for the friction factor on the left side, a better estimate of the friction factor is obtained. If this better estimate is substituted on the right side and the equation solved again, an even better estimate is obtained. After three to five iterations, the solved friction factor is accurate to four significant figures or better. If, however, the computation time consumed in this many iterations is burdensome, the number of iterations may be reduced to two or three, because the Colebrook-White equation itself is limited to an accuracy estimated by experimenters as $\pm 3\%$. The desire for four significant figure accuracy is thus likely unwarranted.

\* It should be noted that drawn metal tubing is assigned an absolute roughness value of 0.000060 in (see Table 8.1). All the same, drawn metal tubes effectively act as smooth pipes except at very high Reynolds number.