66 TRANSIENT ANALYSIS

Integration yields:

$$
t_2-t_1=\frac{V}{D}\big[(\ln P_1-\ln P_2)-(\ln T_1-\ln T_2)\big]
$$

$$
=\frac{V}{D}\left[\ln\frac{P_1}{P_2}-\ln\frac{T_1}{T_2}\right]
=\frac{V}{D}\ln\frac{P_1T_2}{P_2T_1}.
$$

Then,

$$
\frac{w_1}{w_2}=\frac{P_1T_2}{P_2T_1}=e^{\frac{D(t_2-t_1)}{V}}.
\tag{6.25}
$$

In addition to the mass balance, there is an energy balance to satisfy. The rate at which the internal energy of the gas in the container is decreasing at a particular time must equal the rate at which energy is crossing the control volume. Assume that gravitational potential energy and kinetic energy are insignificant.

The rate at which the internal energy is decreasing is:

$$
-dQ=-\frac{c_vV}{R}\frac{dP}{dt}.
$$

The rate at which energy crosses the prescribed section a in the form of internal energy and flow work is:

$$
dQ=\frac{c_pPD}{R}.
\tag{6.26}
$$

The energy balance is:

$$
-\frac{c_vV}{R}\frac{dP}{dt}=\frac{c_pPD}{R}.
\tag{6.27}
$$

For constant specific heats, $\gamma=c_p/c_v$, the integral form of Equation 6.27 can be expressed as:

$$
-\int_{P_1}^{P_2}\frac{dP}{P}=\frac{\gamma D}{V}\int_{t_1}^{t_2}dt.
$$

Integration yields:

$$
\ln P_1-\ln P_2=\frac{\gamma D}{V}(t_2-t_1)
\tag{6.28}
$$

or

$$
t_1-t_2=\frac{V(\ln P_2-\ln P_1)}{\gamma D}.
$$

Rearranging Equation 6.28 also yields:

$$
\frac{P_1}{P_2}=e^{\frac{\gamma D(t_2-t_1)}{V}}.
$$

## 6.3.2 Heat Transfer

Assume that there is heat transfer to the control volume at the instantaneous rate H Btu/s (or J/s) at a particular time. The same mass balance holds as in the case of no heat transfer:

$$
\frac{w_1}{w_2}=\frac{P_1T_2}{P_2T_1}=e^{\frac{D(t_2-t_1)}{V}}.
\qquad \text{(6.25, repeated)}
$$

The rate at which the internal energy of the gas in the container is decreasing is:

$$
-dQ=-\frac{c_vV}{R}\frac{dP}{dt}-H.
$$

The rate at which energy crosses the prescribed section a in the form of internal energy and flow work is:

$$
dQ=\frac{c_pPD}{R}.
\qquad \text{(6.26, repeated)}
$$

The new energy balance is:

$$
H=\frac{c_vV}{R}\frac{dP}{dt}+\frac{c_pDP}{R}.
$$

The integral form can be expressed as:

$$
\int_{t_1}^{t_2}\left(\frac{H}{P}-\frac{c_vD}{R}\right)dt=\frac{c_pV}{R}\int_{P_1}^{P_2}\frac{dP}{P}.
$$

Partial integration yields:

$$
\frac{c_vV(\ln P_2-\ln P_1)}{R}=\int_{t_1}^{t_2}\frac{H}{P}\,dt-\frac{c_pD(t_2-t_1)}{R}.
\tag{6.29}
$$

For constant specific heats, $\gamma=c_p/c_v$, and rearranging, Equation 6.29 becomes:

$$
t_1-t_2=\frac{V(\ln P_2-\ln P_1)}{\gamma D}-\frac{R}{c_pD}\int_{t_1}^{t_2}\frac{H}{P}\,dt.
$$

Then,

$$
\frac{P_1}{P_2}=e^{\frac{\gamma D(t_2-t_1)}{V}-\frac{R}{Vc_p}\int_{t_1}^{t_2}\frac{H}{P}\,dt}.
$$

It is possible to integrate the residual differential equation when the relations between heat transfer H and the several variables and time are known. A numerical or time-step integration may then be employed to obtain the solution.