38 COMPRESSIBLE FLOW

In actuality, of course, since fluid temperature changes continuously along the duct, the fluid viscosity also changes, and then so does the Reynolds number—resulting in a varying friction factor. But it turns out that the variation is modest enough to be easily handled by using the average friction factor.

Notice that $f_{\text{ave}}L_{\max}/D$ in the equation above is in the form of $K = fL/D$, so that it may be called $K_{\text{limit}}$, indicating that if $K$ exceeds $K_{\text{limit}}$, $L$ will exceed $L_{\max}$, which is forbidden. In so doing, however, we must remember that $K$ is a symbol for friction and induced turbulence (or local) losses, but in this context the local losses must be generated without any changes of flow cross section. This restriction nearly eliminates any local losses except those exhibited by bends.

The following solution techniques are very difficult if attempted by hand. A computer program incorporating the techniques and formulas given makes the solutions easy. The same may be said of the compressibility factor equations presented in Appendix D, especially the Lee–Kesler compressibility factor equation. If a computer program is not available to make the desired calculations and the compressibility factor may be neglected because the system pressures are modest and the fluid static temperature is reasonably higher than the critical temperature, then a spreadsheet may be employed to find the correct Mach number from Equation 4.16. The technique is described at the end of Section 4.3.2. Both Equation 4.16 and Equation 4.24 are relatively easy to solve because both have only one unknown—$M_{\text{inlet}}$ in Equation 4.16 and $T_2$ in Equation 4.24.

Area changes should be handled as given in Section 4.3.1.5 or at the end of Section 4.3.2.

### 4.3.1.1 Solution when Static Pressure and Static Temperature Are Known

Equation 4.16 may be used to find the $L_{\max}$ of the duct if the essential duct data are available: flow rate, inlet static pressure, inlet static temperature, duct diameter, friction factor, and gas ratio of specific heats, molecular weight, and compressibility factor. The Mach number of a gas flowing in a duct (assuming a flat velocity profile) is:

$$
M = \frac{v}{A} = \frac{V}{A}.
$$

(1.4b, repeated)

Using $m$ for molecular weight in the proper units, the equation for the acoustic velocity $A$ is:

$$
A = \sqrt{\gamma g z \frac{\bar{R}}{m} T} \quad (\bar{R}\ \text{in weight units [English]}),
$$

(4.17a)

$$
A = \sqrt{\gamma z \frac{\bar{R}}{m} T} \quad (\bar{R}\ \text{in mass units [SI]}).
$$

(4.17b)

In these two equations, $m$ is not mass, but molecular weight; $m$ is in lb/mol$_{\mathrm{lb}}$ for English units, and is in kg/mol$_{\mathrm{kg}}$ for SI units. The compressibility factor $z$ may be evaluated using one of the formulas found in Appendix D or, alternatively, found from a chart of $z$ as a function of reduced pressure and reduced temperature, such as the Nelson–Obert chart. Utilizing Equations 1.3b, 4.17a, and 4.17b and $V$ from $AV\rho_m = \dot{m}$ or $AV\rho_w = \dot{w}$ (Eq. 2.1a and 2.1b), we may write:

$$
M = \frac{V}{A} = \frac{\dot{w}}{A\rho_w A} = \frac{\dot{w}}{AP}\sqrt{\frac{z\bar{R}T}{\gamma g m}} \ \text{(English)},
$$

(4.18a)

$$
M = \frac{V}{A} = \frac{\dot{m}}{A\rho_m A} = \frac{\dot{m}}{AP}\sqrt{\frac{z\bar{R}T}{\gamma m}} \ \text{(SI)}.
$$

(4.18b)

(In these formulas, care must be taken to distinguish between acoustic velocity $A$ and flow area $A$; and while $\dot{m}$ is mass flow rate, $m$ is molecular weight.*) Using this Mach number, evaluated at the duct inlet, $L_{\max}$ becomes immediately available from Equation 4.16.

Equation 4.16 may not be violated. The length of the duct may not exceed $L_{\max}$ where sonic velocity $(M = 1)$ occurs at the exit. However, if the length of the duct is less than $L_{\max}$ as given by Equation 4.16, then the exit Mach number will be less than unity. This is the most frequently encountered case.

Consider a gas receiver discharging through a round duct of known length $L_{\text{line}}$ to a lower pressure region and suppose that the pressure conditions are such that the discharging gas exits from the duct at subsonic velocity (see Fig. 4.5). Assume that friction factor $f$ and diameter $D$ are constant. If we know the flowing conditions at one end—either end—of the duct (flow rate, duct diameter, pressure, and temperature) we may find the Mach number $M$ there using Equation 4.18 and then use Equation 4.16 to find the $(fL/D)_{\text{limit}}$ or $K_{\text{limit}}$ at that end of the duct. (By Eq. 1.3, this can be called $K_{\text{limit}}$ at that end. Remember that because $f$ and $D$ are constant, $K$ in this context is simply length with a constant coefficient.) Note that since the flow exits from the duct subsonically, this $K_{\text{limit}}$ includes a virtual length of duct at which the flow would attain sonic velocity (provided that the pressure at the virtual outlet is low enough). Now, because $f/D$ is constant, $K$ is proportional to $L$ so that we can write:

$$
(K_1)_{\text{limit}} = K_{\text{line}} + (K_2)_{\text{limit}}.
$$

\* Strictly speaking, kg/kg mol is molecular mass and lb/lb mol is molecular weight, but the term “molecular weight” is often used in both SI and the English system. The molecular mass and the molecular weight are numerically equal.