50 NETWORK ANALYSIS

diffuser where the nonuniform flow pattern at the diffuser entrance prevents normal pressure recovery. Likewise, a bend located downstream of a diffuser can cause premature flow separation from the diffuser wall and affect the symmetry of pressure recovery. Another exception is two or more elbows or bends in different planes (a twisted S-form).

Data for a number of close-coupled piping components are available in the literature; see Corp and Hartwell [1], Idel'chik [2], Murikami, et al. [3], and Miller [4].

## 5.2 SERIES FLOW

In series flow two or more piping elements are connected so that the fluid flows through one element and then another. Only one flow rate is involved. By reason, overall head loss for a number of piping elements connected in series is additive:

$$
(H_L)_{\text{Overall}} = K_1 \frac{V_1^2}{2g} + K_2 \frac{V_2^2}{2g} + \ldots + K_N \frac{V_N^2}{2g},
$$

where the subscript N denotes the Nth pipe element. Letting the subscript R denote a reference location that may or may not be an actual geometric location in the piping arrangement, the continuity relationships are:

$$
A_1 V_1 = A_2 V_2 = \ldots = A_N V_N = A_R V_R.
$$

When each term is expressed in terms of a common reference area and a common reference velocity, there results:

$$
(H_L)_{\text{Overall}} = \left[ K_1 \left(\frac{A_R}{A_1}\right)^2 + K_2 \left(\frac{A_R}{A_2}\right)^2 + \ldots + K_N \left(\frac{A_R}{A_N}\right)^2 \right] \frac{V_R^2}{2g}.
$$

By use of the continuity equations, the equation for head loss of a number of piping elements connected in series is:

$$
(H_L)_{\text{Overall}} = \left[ K_1 / A_1^2 + K_2 / A_2^2 + \ldots + K_N / A_N^2 \right] \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w^2},
$$

and the pressure loss equation is simply:

$$
\Delta P_{\text{Overall}} = \left[ K_1 / A_1^2 + K_2 / A_2^2 + \ldots + K_N / A_N^2 \right] \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w}. \tag{5.1}
$$

Equation 5.1 is the broad-spectrum equation for pressure loss of piping elements in series. When the resistance of all piping elements is based on the same reference area $A$ the loss coefficients are directly additive and the pressure loss is given by Equation 5.2:

$$
\Delta P_{\text{Overall}} = [K_1 + K_2 + \ldots + K_N] \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w A^2}. \tag{5.2}
$$

## 5.3 PARALLEL FLOW

In parallel flow, two or more flow streams diverge and then converge downstream so that the flow divides among the pipe sections. The head loss is the same in every pipe section, and the individual flow rates are accumulative.* Overall resistance for a number $N$ of piping sections connected in parallel is not a simple additive process.

To begin, the sum of the flow rates through each pipe section must equal the total flow into and out of the parallel network (the continuity principle):

$$
\dot{w}_{\text{Total}} = \dot{w}_1 + \dot{w}_2 + \ldots + \dot{w}_N. \tag{5.3}
$$

The pressure loss equation, or its equivalent, must be satisfied for each pipe section (the energy principle):

$$
\Delta P_{\text{Overall}} = \left(\frac{K}{A^2}\right)_{\text{Overall}} \frac{\dot{w}_{\text{Total}}^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w}, \tag{5.4}
$$

$$
\Delta P_1 = \left(\frac{K}{A^2}\right)_1 \frac{\dot{w}_1^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w}, \tag{5.5}
$$

$$
\Delta P_2 = \left(\frac{K}{A^2}\right)_2 \frac{\dot{w}_2^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w}, \tag{5.6}
$$

and

$$
\Delta P_N = \left(\frac{K}{A^2}\right)_N \frac{\dot{w}_N^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w}, \tag{5.7}
$$

where $K$ in this case represents the sum of the individual flow elements within each pipe section. The algebraic sum of the head loss across each pipe section is the equal:

$$
\Delta P_{\text{Overall}} = \Delta P_1 = \Delta P_2 = \ldots = \Delta P_N. \tag{5.8}
$$

Substitution of Equations 5.4, 5.5, 5.6 and 5.7 into Equation 5.3 and taking into account Equation 5.8 gives:

$$
(A/\sqrt{K})_{\text{Overall}} = (A/\sqrt{K})_1 + (A/\sqrt{K})_2 + \ldots + (A/\sqrt{K})_N.
$$

\* Vessels, reservoirs, or flow manifolds may be required at the divergent and convergent points to truly make the head loss the same in every pipe section when there are more than two parallel flow sections.