xvi PREFACE

Elbows, pipe bends, coils, and miter bends are presented in Chapter 15. The intricacies of converging and diverging flow through pipe junctions (tees) are presented in Chapter 16. Pipe joints are covered in Chapter 17, and valve information is offered in Chapter 18. The internal geometry of threaded (screwed) pipe fittings is discontinuous, creating additional pressure loss; and they are covered separately in Chapter 19.

Part III (Chapters 20 through 23) examines flow phenomena that can affect the performance of piping systems. Cavitation, when local pressure falls below the vapor pressure of a liquid, is studied in Chapter 20. Chapter 21 provides a brief depiction of flow-induced vibration in piping systems; water hammer and column separation are investigated. Situations where temperature rise in a flowing liquid may be of interest are presented in Chapter 22. Flow behavior in horizontal openings at low flow rates is evaluated in Chapter 23.

The book’s nomenclature was selected so that it would be familiar to engineers worldwide. The book employs two systems of units: the English gravitational system (often called the U.S. Customary System or USCS) and the International System (or SI for Système International). Conversions between and within the two systems are provided in the appendix.

This book represents industrial experience gained working together at Aerojet General Corporation, Liquid Rocket Engine Test Division, and later, working separately at General Electric Company, Nuclear Energy Division, and at Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Oceanic Division. We are indebted to the many engineering colleagues who helped shape our experience in the field of fluid flow. We especially appreciate Dr. Phillip G. Ellison’s helpful comments and suggestions.

We acknowledge the understanding and support of our wives, Bel and Joan.

DONALD C. RENNELS  
HOBART M. HUDSON