200 TEES

# REFERENCES

1. Gardel, A., Chambres d’équilibre, (doctorate thesis in French) École Polytechnique de l’Université de Lausanne, Librairie de l’Université, 1956.

2. Gardel, A., Pressure drops in flows through T-shaped fittings, (in French), *Bulletin Technique de la Suisse Romande*, 83(9), April 1957, pp. 123–130, and (10), May 1957, pp. 143–148.

3. Ito, H. and K. Imai, Energy losses at 90° pipe junctions, *Journal of the Hydraulics Division, Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, HY9, September 1973, 1353–1368.

4. Idel’chik, I. E., *Handbook of Hydraulic Resistance—Coefficients of Local Resistance and of Friction*, Moskva-Leningrad, 1960, (Translated from Russian. Published for the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission and the National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C by the Israel Program for Scientific Translations, Jerusalem, 1966.)

5. Kinne, E., Contribution to the knowledge of hydraulic losses in branches, *Hydro Institute of Technology Hochschule-Munchen*, (4), 1931, 70–93. (Translation No. 323 by Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Dept. of the Interior, Washington, 1955.)

6. Gardel, A. and G. F. Rechsteiner, *Les Pertes de Charge dans les Branchments en Te des Conduites de Section Circulaire*, (in French), Publication No, 118, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland, 1971.

# FURTHER READING

This list includes books and papers that may be helpful to those who wish to pursue further study.

Vogel, G., Investigation of the loss in right-angled pipe branches, *Hydro Institute of Technology Hochschule-Munchen*, (1), 1926, pp. 75–90, and (2), 1928, pp. 61–64.

Corp, C. I., Experiments on loss of head in U, S, and Twisted S pipe bends, *Bulletin of the University of Wisconsin, Engineering Experiment Station Series No. 66*, Madison, 1927.

Petermann, F., Loss in oblique-angled pipe branches, *Hydr. Inst. Tech. Hochschule-Munchen No. 3*, 1929, pp. 65–77. (Translated by N. H. Eaton and K. H. Beij, American Society of Mechanical Engineer Special Publication, 1935.)

Naramoto, I. and T. Kasai, On the loss of energy at impact of two confined streams of water, *Kyushu Imperial University College of Engineering Memory*, Fukuoka, Japan, 6(3), 1931, 189–261.

Farve, H., On the laws governing the movement of fluids in conduits under pressure with lateral flow, *Univ. des Mines Rev.*, Belgium, (ser 8, t. 13) 12: 1937, pp. 502–512. (Translation supplied by Agr. Res. Serv., St. Anthony Falls Hydr. Lab., Minneapolis.)

Vazsonyi, A., Pressure loss in elbows and duct branches, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 66, April 1944, 177–183.

Keller, J. D., The manifold problem, *Journal of Applied Mechanics, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 71, March 1949, 77–85.

McKnown, J. S., Mechanics of manifold flow, *Transactions of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, 119, 1954, 1103–1142.

Starosolszky, O., Pressure conditions in pipe branches, *Vízügyi Közlemények*, Imprimerie University, Budapest, No. 1958/1, 1958, pp. 115–121 (translated by Language Service Bureau, Washington, D.C.).

Levine, S., Collision of incompressible-liquid streams in pipe, *Leningrad Tech. Inst. No. 8*, 1958. (Published by Dunod, Paris, 1968).

Zeisser, M. H., Summary report of single-tube branch and multi-tube branch water flow tests conducted by the University of Connecticut, Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Division, United Aircraft Corporation, Report No. PWAC-231 USAEC Contract AT (11-1)-229. May, 1963.

Blaisdell, F. W. and P. W. Manson, Loss of energy at sharp-edged pipe junctions in water conveyance systems, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, Tech. Bulletin No, 1283, 163 pp., 106 figs, August, 1963.

Lakshmana Rao, N. S., B. C. Syamala Rao, and M. S. Shivaswamy, Distribution of energy losses at conduit trifurcations, *Journal of the Hydraulics Division, Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, HY6, November 1968, 1363–1374.

Ruus, E., Head losses in wyes and manifolds, *Journal of the Hydraulics Division, Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, HY3, March 1970, 593–608.

Bajura, R. A., A model for flow distribution in manifolds, *Journal of Engineering for Power, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 93, January 1971, 7–12.

Miller, D. S., *Internal Flow, a Guide to Losses in Pipe and Duct Systems*, The British Hydromechanics Research Association, 1971.

Bajura, R. A., V. F. LeRose, and L. E. Williams, Fluid distribution in combining, dividing and reverse flow manifolds, *Journal of Engineering for Power, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, Paper No. 73-Pwr-1, 1973, 1–11.

Williamson, J. V. and T. J. Rhone, Dividing flow in branches and wyes, *Journal of the Hydraulics Division, Proceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers*, HY5, May 1973, 747–769.

Bajura, R. A. and E. H. Jones, Flow distribution manifolds, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 88, 1976, 654–666.

Ito, H., M. Sato, and K. Oka, Energy losses due to division and combination of flow at 90° Wyes (in Japanese), *Transactions of the Japanese Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 50(450), 1978, 342–350.

Shen, P. I., The effect of friction on flow distribution in dividing and combining flow manifolds, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 114, March 1992, 121–123.