# PART I

# METHODOLOGY

## PROLOGUE

Part I of this work consists of Chapters 1 through 7. These chapters, with the exception of Chapters 5–7, establish the basic “rules of the road,” so to speak.

Chapter 1, “Fundamentals,” discloses the systems of units that are used throughout the book, nomenclature and meanings of fluid properties, important dimensionless ratios, equations of state, and expositions of flow velocity and flow regimes.

Chapter 2, “Conservation Equations,” elaborates on the conservation equations, that is, conservation of mass, of momentum and of energy. The general energy equation, head loss, and grade lines are treated under conservation of energy.

Chapter 3, “Incompressible Flow,” expounds on how the particulars of incompressible flow (i.e., flow of liquids) became known through the breakthroughs of Julius Weisbach (head loss formula, 1845), Osborne Reynolds (the Reynolds number, 1883), and Ludwig Prandtl (boundary layers and the smooth pipe friction factor formula, 1904–1929). Johann Nikuradse’s artificially roughened pipe experiments provided data (1933) to flesh out Prandtl’s smooth pipe friction factor formula and Theodor von Kármán’s complete turbulence formula (1930). Discrepancies between Nikuradse’s artificially roughened pipe data and data on commercial pipe were resolved by Cyril F. Colebrook and Cedric M. White (1937). Colebrook published a semirational formula for random roughness (1939) that is still used today.

Chapter 4, “Compressible Flow,” gives several ways to calculate head loss in compressible flow in pipes using approximate formulas derived from incompressible flow formulas. It culminates in giving theoretical formulas for compressible flow using either the Mach number or absolute pressure. While the formulas are complicated enough to resist explicit solution, ways are given to solve them by trial-and-error methods.

Chapter 5, “Network Analysis,” gives methods to solve distribution of flow in networks. Chapter 6, “Transient Analysis,” provides methods for solving flow problems whose flow rates are not constant. Chapter 7, “Uncertainty Analysis,” gives methods for estimating the probable error or uncertainty in predicting pressure drop and flow rate.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

1