272 ADIABATIC COMPRESSIBLE FLOW WITH FRICTION, USING MACH NUMBER AS A PARAMETER

In order to simplify the equations, let us recast the equation for Mach number (Eq. E.2a or E.2b) in the following form:

$$
M = B\sqrt{T}/P,
$$

(E.14)

where

$$
B = \frac{\dot{m}}{A}\sqrt{\frac{z\overline{R}}{\gamma m}} \qquad (\overline{R} = 8314.34\ \mathrm{J/mol_{kg}\,^\circ K})
$$

(E.15a)

or

$$
B = \frac{\dot{w}}{A}\sqrt{\frac{z\overline{R}}{\gamma gm}} \qquad (\overline{R} = 1545.31\ \mathrm{ft\!\!-\!\!lb/mol_{lb}\,^\circ R}).
$$

(E.15b)

## E.2 SOLUTION WHEN *STATIC PRESSURE* AND *TOTAL TEMPERATURE* ARE KNOWN

Now, if *static pressure* and *total temperature* are known, substitute the expression for static temperature $T$ (Eq. E.12), in terms of total temperature $T_t$, in place of $T$; then:

$$
M = \frac{B}{P}\sqrt{\frac{T_t}{1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2}}.
$$

(E.16)

This equation is a quadratic in $M^2$ whose solution is:

$$
M^2 = \frac{\sqrt{1 + 2(\gamma - 1)(B\sqrt{T_t}/P)^2} - 1}{\gamma - 1}.
$$

(E.17)

Note the similarity of the expression $B\sqrt{T_t}/P$ in Equation E.17 to that for Mach number $M$ in Equation E.14. They are identical except that the one above contains $T_t$ while Equation E.14 contains simply $T$. Let us therefore call the expression (and similar expressions utilizing the available temperature and pressure, whether they be static or total) “core Mach number,” $M_{\text{core}}$, because of its similarity to the simple expression for Mach number based on static values, and because it is the “core” of the expression for Mach number when other than static values are utilized. Then, for the *static pressure* and *total temperature* case, we may write:

$$
M^2 = \frac{\sqrt{1 + 2(\gamma - 1)M_{\text{core}}^2} - 1}{\gamma - 1}.
$$

(E.18)

This $M^2$ may now be substituted into Equation 4.16 to find the $f_{ave}L_{max}/D$ or $K_{\text{limit}}$, and from thence to find the Mach number at the other end of the duct and the accompanying pressure and temperature.

## E.3 SOLUTION WHEN *TOTAL PRESSURE* AND *TOTAL TEMPERATURE* ARE KNOWN

If *total pressure* and *total temperature* are known at one end of the duct, the expressions for static pressure in terms of total pressure and static temperature in terms of total temperature may be substituted into Equation E.14 to obtain the equation for $M$. But in order to simplify the algebra, let us simplify the equations for $T$ and $P_t$ (Eqs. E.12 and E.13) by substituting the parameter $X$ for the expression $1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2$:

$$
T = \frac{T_t}{1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2} = \frac{T_t}{X},
$$

(E.19)

$$
P = \frac{P_t}{[1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2]^{\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}} = \frac{P_t}{X^{\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}}.
$$

(E.20)

Now Equation E.14 may be written as:

$$
M = B\frac{\sqrt{T}}{P} = B\frac{\sqrt{T_t/X}}{P_t/X^{\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}} = B\frac{\sqrt{T_t}}{P_t}X^{\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}X^{-1/2}
$$

$$
= M_{\text{core}}X^{(\gamma + 1)/2(\gamma - 1)}.
$$

(E.21)

Squaring and substituting $1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2$ for $X$ yields:

$$
M^2 = M_{\text{core}}^2[1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2]^{(\gamma + 1)/(\gamma - 1)}.
$$

(E.22)

Equation E.22 cannot be solved explicitly. Using the Newton–Raphson iterative method, however, it is easily solved. The solution is simpler if we use our parameter $X$ as the variable. In the equation $X = 1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2$, solve for $M^2$.

$$
M^2 = \frac{2(X - 1)}{\gamma - 1}.
$$

(E.23)

Now substitute these expressions into Equation E.22 and solve for zero:

$$
\frac{2(X - 1)}{\gamma - 1} = M_{\text{core}}^2X^{(\gamma + 1)/(\gamma - 1)},
$$

(E.24)

$$
0 = \frac{\gamma - 1}{2}M_{\text{core}}^2X^{(\gamma + 1)/(\gamma - 1)} - X + 1.
$$

(E.25)

In the Newton-Raphson method, we need to set this function equal to $f(X)$ and differentiate in order to find the value of $X$ when the function is equal to zero. The derivative of $f(X)$ is:

$$
f'(X) = \frac{\gamma + 1}{2}M_{\text{core}}^2X^{2/(\gamma - 1)} - 1.
$$

(E.26)