ordinary conditions), $E$ is the elastic modulus of the pipe material ($E$ is approximately 30,000,000 pounds per square inch for steel), and $d$ and $t_w$ are the diameter and wall thickness of the pipe, respectively.

The water hammer pressure $\Delta P_{max}$, which is the intensity of the *excess pressure* produced by extinguishing the velocity $V$, can be determined as:

$$
\Delta P_{max}=\frac{\rho_w V}{g}A_{pipe}.
$$

(21.2)

If the expression for $A_{pipe}$, Equation 21.1, is substituted into Equation 21.2, the water hammer pressure $\Delta P_{max}$ is*:

$$
\Delta P_{max}=V\sqrt{\frac{144\rho_w B}{g}}\sqrt{\frac{1}{1+\frac{B}{E}\frac{d}{t_w}}}.
$$

(21.3)

As an example, the sudden valve closure of 60°F water flowing through a 16-in schedule 40 steel pipe at a velocity of 20 ft/s results in an excess pressure in the pipe:

$V = 20$ ft/s  
$\rho_w = 62.37$ lb/ft$^3$  
$B = 300{,}000$ lb/in$^2$  
$E = 30{,}000{,}000$ lb/in$^2$  
$d = 15.000$ in  
$t_w = 0.500$ in

$$
\Delta P_{max}
$$

$$
=20\sqrt{\frac{144\times62.37\times300{,}000}{32.174}}\sqrt{\frac{1}{1+\frac{300{,}000}{30{,}000{,}000}\times\frac{15.000}{0.500}}}
$$

$$
=180{,}500\ \text{lb/ft}^2\ (=1115\ \text{lb/in}^2)
$$

This example results in a substantial increase above the normal pressure in the pipe. However, it should be noted that the derivation of $\Delta P_{max}$ assumed instantaneous closure of the valve. This maximum pressure rise at the valve is maintained during the time $t_{rt}$ required for the pressure wave to make a round trip of the pipe. For a pipe of length $L$, this time is:

$$
t_{rt}=\frac{2L}{A_{pipe}}.
$$

(21.4)

If the valve is closed gradually, but within this time, the excess pressure at the gate will build up to the maximum value as before. This is because the first small pressure wave, generated as the valve starts to close, will not have had time to make a round trip and return to the valve as a wave lowering the pressure to normal. Equation 21.3 therefore applies for any time of closure up to time $t_{rt}$ in Equation 21.4.

In 1898, N. Joukovsky [3] of Moscow was the first to demonstrate the validity of this equation. Joukovsky experimented with the effects of slow closure time. He concluded that for slow closure times (where closure time $t_{cl}$ is greater than round-trip time $t_{rt}$) the excess pressure is reduced in intensity according to the proportion:

$$
\frac{\Delta P}{\Delta P_{max}}=\frac{t_{rt}}{t_{cl}}=\frac{2L}{t_{cl}A_{pipe}}.
$$

It has been proven since that this relation results in values greater than the actual pressure. Values computed from it therefore err on the side of safety.

The simplest method of protecting pipes from water hammer is found to be slowly closing the valve. In the case of long, cross-country pipelines, including gas lines, several minutes closing time may be necessary to alleviate water hammer.

In addition, the rise of pressure caused by water hammer may be minimized by the use of pressure relief valves of adequate size. They should be designed to open quickly and close slowly. In the case of liquid systems, air chambers or surge tanks of adequate size connected to the pipe near the valve may prevent pressure waves of significant magnitude from passing up the pipe. Such chambers should be kept filled with gas, perhaps with the aid of a diaphragm, since the liquid may readily absorb gas under pressure. To obtain greatest effectiveness, these devices should be located as close as possible to the source of the disturbance.

## 21.4 COLUMN SEPARATION

A water hammer-type event called *column separation* may occur in a pipeline filled with liquid when a vapor cavity forms and suddenly collapses. This results in a large and nearly instantaneous rise in pressure due to the collision of two liquid columns, or the collision of one liquid column with a closed end. Another related phenomenon, known as *steam hammer*, might occur in vapor distribution systems. Some vapor may condense into liquid in a section of piping and form a slug. Subsequently, the vapor may hurl the slug at high velocity into hydraulic equipment or into pipe fittings and cause major problems.

Early on, licensees of operating nuclear reactors in the United States reported a number of column

\* See previous footnote.