# 17

# PIPE JOINTS

Pressure loss due to pipe connections, or joints, is usually ignored or neglected. Yet, the various joints used to assemble pipe components can sometimes give rise to significant pressure loss.

Two aspects of butt weld connections, weld protrusion and backing rings, result in relatively small pressure loss. Even so, for long pipelines where there are few sources of pressure loss other than pipe friction, the pressure loss due to weld connections may be significant. Socket weld and flanged connections offer minimal pressure loss unless they are terribly misaligned. The internal geometry of threaded (screwed) pipe fittings is discontinuous, creating additional pressure loss, and they are covered separately in Chapter 19.

## 17.1 WELD PROTRUSION

In achieving full penetration butt welds, the root pass normally protrudes through the inside surface of the pipe (drop through) to form a slight and somewhat irregular orifice. The orifice effect may be further heightened by radial shrinkage of the pipe wall during the welding process (see Fig. 17.1). Well-planned weld procedures, as well as a skilled welder, can minimize the combined effect.

In the case of short, compact piping sections, welds connect pipe components that are closely spaced. In this case, pressure loss due to weld protrusion is small compared to pressure loss in the various pipe components. Moreover, interaction effects with the various pipe components are difficult to quantify and may be minus as well as plus. However, in the case of long pipelines containing mainly straight sections of pipe with few fittings and valves, pressure loss due to weld protrusion may be significant.

The following formula can be employed to account for weld protrusion loss in a long, straight section of pipe:

$$
K \approx K_w C_L,
$$

(17.1)

where $K_w$ is the loss coefficient of a butt weld joint separated from other weld joints or pipe fittings by a relative distance $l/d$ equal to or greater than 40, and $C_L$ is a correction factor to adjust for welds separated by less than a relative distance of 40.

The protruding weld bead tends to be somewhat rounded so that the loss may be treated as a rounded contraction. Assuming that the effective rounding radius $r$ is equal to 1/2 the depth $\Delta_w$ of the protrusion, the loss coefficient $K_w$ was evaluated as a round-edged orifice in a straight pipe by employing Equation 13.6. The calculated results were multiplied by $d^4/d_o^4$ to relate $K_w$ to the velocity in the pipe rather than to the velocity in the orifice restriction. As such, the loss coefficient $K_w$ of a butt weld joint separated by a relative distance $l/d$ equal to or greater than 40 from the closest butt weld joint upstream is shown in Diagram 17.1.

Weld specifications usually stipulate maximum allowable weld protrusion. For lack of actual data on particular welds, the allowable value may be used as a first-order estimate.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

201