# SOURCES OF HEAD LOSS

2g divisor. His formula was so successful that it is still the formula in modern use. Darcy is usually given credit or joint credit for the formula, and the friction factor $f$ in Weisbach’s formula is usually called the *Darcy friction factor*.* In fact, though, Darcy’s contribution was not the formula but the recognition that fluid resistance depends on the type and condition of the boundary material. However, neither Weisbach nor any of the other pioneers mentioned had any rational basis for the proportionality factors, or “friction factors,” in their equations. The group $fL/D$ is called the resistance (or loss) coefficient and given the symbol $K$. More will be said about $f$ and $K$ in Chapters 4 and 8.

## 3.2.1.3 Reynolds Number

The next breakthrough came when Osborne Reynolds (1842–1912), a British engineer, showed in 1883 that the transition between laminar, or streamline, flow and turbulent flow occurs at a fairly definite value of a dimensionless number he had developed. The number named after him is the Reynolds number [6]:

$$
N_{\mathrm{Re}}=\frac{VD\rho_w}{g\mu}=\frac{\dot{w}\rho_w}{g\mu A}
\qquad \text{(English)} \qquad (1.2a,\text{ repeated})
$$

$$
N_{\mathrm{Re}}=\frac{VD\rho_m}{\mu}=\frac{\dot{m}\rho_m}{\mu A}
\qquad \text{(SI)}. \qquad (1.2b,\text{ repeated})
$$

The Reynolds number is the ratio of momentum forces to viscous forces in the flow. It is now known that when the viscous forces predominate, the flow is laminar; when the momentum forces predominate, the viscous flow breaks down and becomes turbulent.

## 3.2.1.4 Friction Factors

### The Laminar Flow Friction Factor

Using Reynolds’ new dimensionless number, a friction factor for use in Weisbach’s friction head equation may be found for the laminar flow regime. Grouping the variables of the Reynolds number in the Hagen–Poiseuille law and grouping the remaining variables as in Weisbach’s equation yields the following formula for *laminar* friction factor:

$$
f=\frac{64}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}}.
\qquad (3.3)
$$

The laminar friction factor is a function of Reynolds number alone, and is independent of any other factor.

*The Turbulent Flow Friction Factor* It was not until the early 1930s that the friction factor for turbulent flow was reduced to a rational basis. Ludwig Prandtl (1875–1953), a researcher at the University of Göttingen in Germany, through his work on velocity distribution, showed that the formula for friction factor for turbulent flow in smooth pipes should take the form [7]:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}}=A\log N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}-B
\quad \text{or} \quad
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}}=A\log_{10}(CN_{\mathrm{Re}})\sqrt{f},
$$

where $A$, $B$, and $C$ are constants. At that time, Johann Nikuradse (1894–1979), an engineer on Prandtl’s laboratory staff at Göttingen, was experimenting with flow in artificially roughened pipes. His research provided data to define the constants in Prandtl’s equation [8,9]:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}}=2\log_{10}\frac{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}}{2.51}
\quad \text{or} \quad
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}}=-2\log_{10}\frac{2.51}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}\sqrt{f}}.
\qquad (3.4)
$$

At the same time, Theodor von Kármán (1881–1963), a Hungarian engineer working as a professor at the University of Göttingen, also used Nikuradse’s data to determine that for rough pipes flowing with complete turbulence, the friction factor is independent of Reynolds number and is equal to [10]:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}}=2\log_{10}3.7\frac{D}{\epsilon}
\quad \text{or} \quad
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}}=-2\log_{10}\frac{\epsilon}{3.7D}.
\qquad (3.5)
$$

Nikuradse’s work, published in 1933, showed that, for pipes roughened on the inside circumference with uniform sand grains, the friction factor followed the Hagen–Poiseuille law up to the critical Reynolds number, then rose up to the smooth pipe friction factor formulated by Prandtl, followed it down for a range of Reynolds numbers, then rose up again to meet the friction factor for turbulent flow formulated by von Kármán (Fig. 3.1).

His results, while duplicating results with *smooth* pipe and with *rough* pipe at high Reynolds numbers, unfortunately did not duplicate results with commercial pipe at intermediate Reynolds numbers. Friction factor results with commercial pipe, for increasing Reynolds numbers, yielded friction factors that followed the Hagen–Poiseuille law until rising abruptly at the critical Reynolds number ($N_{\mathrm{Re}} \approx 2100$), then declined gradually in the transition zone to fair into the complete turbulence friction factor. Nikuradse’s friction factor, on the other hand, after the abrupt rise at the critical Reynolds number, rose only to the smooth pipe line and *followed it* before *rising* to fair into the complete turbulence factor (compare Figs. 3.1 and 3.2).

\* This nomenclature is necessary to distinguish it from other friction factors in use, especially the Fanning friction factor, which is one-quarter the Darcy friction factor.