24 INCOMPRESSIBLE FLOW

## 3.2.1 Surface Friction Loss

Effort is required to cause a fluid to flow through a conduit. Whenever there is relative motion between two bodies in contact there is frictional resistance, and fluid flow in conduits is no exception.

The problem of a rational treatment of surface friction has been under investigation since at least the late 1700s. Some of the early experimenters recognized there are two flow regimes—one in which flow moves on in a tranquil, quiescent fashion, and one in which the flow is chaotic. The former has been named *streamline* or *laminar* flow, because the various axial layers of the fluid remain intact as the flow proceeds. The latter has been named *turbulent* flow, because layers in the flow conduit do not remain intact but are constantly being mixed due to turbulence, that is, chaotic motions in the flow.

Gradual progress in understanding surface friction started with the recognition that friction loss—at least for the turbulent regime—is approximately proportional to the square of the flow velocity. But the first rational formulation of pressure loss in flow of fluids in conduits was found for the laminar regime. A similar formulation for the turbulent region was not far behind.

### 3.2.1.1 Laminar Flow

While most of the early researchers experimented in the turbulent regime, two very successful ones experimented in the laminar regime. Gotthilf Hagen (1797–1884), a German hydraulic engineer, published in 1839 a paper quantifying pressure loss in laminar flow. Independently, Jean Poiseuille (1797–1869), a French physician hoping to quantify flow losses in blood vessels, working at the same time, discovered the same governing relations. He published his work in 1841. The law governing pressure drop in laminar flow that they found is now called the Hagen–Poiseuille law in their honor [1,2]. It is:

$$
H_L = \frac{32\mu LV}{\rho_w D^2}.
$$

Although Hagen observed a transition in which his tranquil flow became chaotic or turbulent, he did not succeed in his attempts to understand why it happened.

### 3.2.1.2 Turbulent Flow

One of the earlier fluid flow experimenters was Antoine de Chézy (1718–1798), a French hydraulic engineer. Chézy, in his analyses for the Yvette River aqueduct project in France in about 1770, made use of the fact that head loss—for aqueducts—is approximately proportional to the square of the flow velocity [3]. His formula was:

$$
V = C\sqrt{RS},
$$

where  
$R$ = hydraulic radius of conduit or channel,  
$S$ = slope of conduit = $H_L/L$,  
$L$ = conduit length, and  
$C = V/(RS)^{1/2}$ from observation of other channels.

While Chézy’s formula was developed for open channel flow, it is noteworthy that it can be applied to pipe flow as well. His equation can be rearranged and expressed as:

$$
H_L = \frac{1}{C^2}\frac{L}{R}V^2.
$$

Although Chézy’s formula is dimensionally homogeneous, and Chézy recognized that $C$ changed from channel to channel, it does not appear that he knew how it changed. It is ironic that Chézy’s work on this formula was not published until 1897 in the United States by Clemens Herschel [3].

Gaspard Riche de Prony (1755–1839), another French engineer (famous for the Prony brake), published a formula in 1804 which may be expressed as [3]:

$$
H_L = \left(\frac{a}{V} + b\right)\frac{L}{D}\frac{V^2}{2g},
$$

where $a$ and $b$ are dimensionless coefficients. However, the equation is not dimensionally homogeneous. Prony believed that the formula for pressure loss in pipes was a power series in $V$, and his formula above was a first approximation using the second and third terms.

Henry Darcy (1803–1858), yet another French engineer, in 1857 proposed the following formula for smooth pipes [4]:

$$
H_L = \left(a\frac{L}{D} + b\frac{L}{D^3}\right)V + \left(b\frac{L}{D} + c\frac{L}{D^2}\right)V^2,
$$

in which $a$, $b$, and $c$ are dimensionless coefficients. The first term was dropped for rough pipes and the coefficients changed somewhat. However, Darcy’s formula was not dimensionally homogeneous either.

Julius Weisbach (1806–1871), a German engineer, published his formula in 1845 [5]:

$$
H_L = f\frac{L}{D}\frac{V^2}{2g}.
$$
(3.2)

Weisbach was the first to write a dimensionally homogeneous formula for surface friction pressure drop incorporating a dimensionless “friction factor” and the