# APPENDIX E

## ADIABATIC COMPRESSIBLE FLOW WITH FRICTION, USING MACH NUMBER AS A PARAMETER

This appendix gives derivations for application equations presented in Chapter 4.

Street et al. [1] and Shapiro [2] give the following relation for a constant-area duct flowing a gas *with sonic velocity at the exit*:

$$
f_{\text{ave}} \frac{L_{\max}}{D}
=
\frac{1-M^2}{\gamma M^2}
+
\frac{\gamma+1}{2\gamma}
\ln \left[
\frac{(\gamma+1)M^2}{2\left(1+\frac{\gamma-1}{2}M^2\right)}
\right],
$$

$$
(4.16,\text{ repeated})
$$

where

$f_{\text{ave}}$ = average Darcy friction factor along the duct,  
$L_{\max}$ = maximum attainable duct length with $M$ at the inlet, ft (or m),  
$D$ = duct diameter, ft (or m),  
$\gamma$ = ratio of specific heats of flowing gas, and  
$M$ = Mach number of the gas flow at the duct inlet.

In the development of this equation, $f$ is assumed to be a constant, and $f_{\text{ave}}$ is taken as a reasonable value for $f$. In actuality, of course, since fluid temperature changes continuously along the duct, the fluid viscosity also changes, and then so does Reynolds Number—resulting in a varying friction factor. But it turns out that the variation is modest enough to be handled by using the average friction factor.

## E.1 SOLUTION WHEN *STATIC* PRESSURE AND *STATIC* TEMPERATURE ARE KNOWN

Equation 4.16 may be used to find the $L_{\max}$ of the duct if the essential duct data are available: flow rate, inlet static pressure, inlet static temperature, duct diameter, friction factor, and gas ratio of specific heats, molecular weight, and compressibility factor. The Mach number of a gas flowing in a duct (assuming a flat velocity profile) is:

$$
M=\frac{u}{A}\approx \frac{V}{A}.
$$

$$
(1.4,\text{ repeated})
$$

The equation for the acoustic velocity $A$ is:

$$
A=\sqrt{\frac{\gamma \overline{P}}{\rho_m}} \text{ (mass units)} \quad \text{or} \quad
A=\sqrt{\frac{\gamma P\bar{g}}{\rho_w}} \text{ (weight units)}.
$$

Utilizing the equation of state, Equations 1.6 in Chapter 1, the acoustic velocity may be expressed as:

$$
A=\sqrt{\frac{\gamma \overline{P}}{\rho_m}}
=
\sqrt{\frac{\gamma P}{P/zRT}}
=
\sqrt{\gamma zRT}
=
\sqrt{\gamma z \frac{\overline{R}}{m} T}
\qquad (\text{E.1a})
$$

$(\overline{R}=8314.34\ \text{J}/\text{mol}_{\mathrm{kg}}{}^\circ\mathrm{K}),$

or

$$
A=\sqrt{\frac{\gamma P\bar{g}}{\rho_w}}
=
\sqrt{\frac{\gamma Pg}{P/zRT}}
=
\sqrt{\gamma zgRT}
=
\sqrt{\gamma zg \frac{\overline{R}}{m} T}
\qquad (\text{E.1b})
$$

$(\overline{R}=1545.31\ \text{ft-lb}/\text{mol}_{\mathrm{lb}}{}^\circ\mathrm{R}).$

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

269