6 FUNDAMENTALS

the fifteenth-century German physicist Gabriel Fahrenheit [1]. It is based on the lowest temperature he could attain with a salt and ice mixture (assigned a value of 0°F) and human body temperature (to which he tried to assign a value of 96°F). This did not work out well and he ended up assigning 32°F to the melting point of ice and 212°F to the boiling point of water. The SI temperature scale (the Kelvin scale) is an absolute scale using the centigrade degree. The centigrade scale was devised by Swedish astronomer Anders Celsius in 1742 and incorporated into the metric system adopted in France at the close of the French Revolution [1]. On this scale—officially called Celsius since 1948—the melting point and boiling point of water at standard atmospheric pressure were assigned values of 0 and 100°C respectively.

*Absolute Temperature:* Temperature measured from absolute zero. It was noted in the late 1700s by the French physicist Jacques Charles (1746–1823) that gases expand and contract in direct proportion to their temperature changes. On a suitably chosen scale their volumes are thus directly proportional to their temperatures. The extrapolated temperature of zero volume according to the kinetic theory of gases is also the point at which molecular activity—and hence heat content—vanishes. No lower temperature is possible and so this temperature is called absolute zero. Two temperature scales based on this zero point are in common use. One, utilizing the Fahrenheit degree, is called the Rankine scale; temperatures on this scale are marked °R. The other, utilizing the Celsius degree, is called the Kelvin scale and its temperatures are marked K. The temperature 0°F corresponds to 459.67°R, and 0°C is identical to 273.15 K. Absolute zero is thus −459.67°F or −273.15°C.

*Critical Temperature:* The temperature of a pure substance at its *critical state*, above which its gas phase cannot be liquefied by the application of pressure, because at the critical temperature the latent heat of vaporization vanishes and the liquid cannot be distinguished from the gas. Values of critical temperature for selected gases are given in Appendix D.3.

## 1.2.7 Heat

*Heat (Heat Energy):* Heat is the measure of thermal energy contained in a substance. In fluid flow problems generally only sensible heat (i.e., heat obvious to the sense of touch or yielding a change in temperature) is of interest. It can be measured in the same units as work energy and indeed is interchangeable with energy. Usually heat is measured in units related to the heat–temperature relationship of water. In the English system the unit is the British thermal unit (usually abbreviated Btu). In SI it is the kilocalorie. The conversion to mechanical energy is the mechanical equivalent of heat. Its value is given in Appendix C.1.

*Specific Heat:* The measure of the change of heat capacity of a unit weight or mass of a substance for a unit change of temperature. It is almost always expressed in heat units, that is, Btu or kilocalories. The units of specific heat are thus Btu/lb-R (or Btu/lb-F) and kcal/kg-K (or kcal/kg-C).

## 1.3 IMPORTANT DIMENSIONLESS RATIOS

Researchers have devised many dimensionless ratios in order to describe the behavior of physical processes. The most important to us in analyzing pressure drop in fluid systems are described in the succeeding sections.

### 1.3.1 Reynolds Number

Named for the British engineer Osborne Reynolds (1842–1912), the Reynolds number is the ratio of momentum forces to viscous forces. It is extremely important in quantifying pressure drop in fluids flowing in closed conduits. It is given by:

$$
N_{\mathrm{Re}}=\frac{VD\rho_w}{\mu g}=\frac{\dot{w}D}{\mu gA} \qquad \text{(English),} \qquad (1.2a)
$$

$$
N_{\mathrm{Re}}=\frac{VD\rho_m}{\mu}=\frac{\dot{m}D}{\mu A} \qquad \text{(SI).} \qquad (1.2b)
$$

### 1.3.2 Relative Roughness

This quantity, as with the Reynolds number above, is extremely important in finding pressure drop in fluids flowing in pipes. It is rarely, if ever, assigned a symbol; but for illustration here let it be called $R_R$. It is defined as:

$$
R_R=\frac{\varepsilon}{D},
$$

where $\varepsilon$ is the absolute roughness of the pipe inner wall and $D$ is the pipe inside diameter. (In practice it is usually just called $\varepsilon/D$.)