68 TRANSIENT ANALYSIS

Setting the time step at 10 seconds would likely provide a sufficiently accurate answer for this simple computation. Other computations, such as a transient analysis program that simulates a loss of coolant accident (LOCA) in a nuclear power plant, would use small time steps, and would simultaneously track pressure, temperature, phase change, fluid density, flow rate, and so on, in addition to water level.

## REFERENCES

1. Moody, F. J., *Unsteady Thermofluid Mechanics*, John Wiley & Sons, 1990.
2. Fox, J. A., *Hydraulic Analysis of Unsteady Flow in Pipe Networks*, The MacMillan Press Ltd, 1984.
3. Mackay, C. O., W. N. Barnard, and F. O. Ellenwood, *Engineering Thermodynamics*, John Wiley & Sons, 1957.

Streeter, V. L. and E. B. Wylie, *Hydraulic Transients*, McGraw-Hill, 1967.

Webb, S. W. and J. L. Caves, Fluid transient analysis in pipelines with nonuniform liquid density, *Journal of Fluids Engineering, Transactions of American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 105, 1983, 423–428.

Blevins, R. D., *Applied Fluid Dynamics Handbook*, Van Nostrand Reinhold Company, 1984.

Nanayakkara, S. and N. D. Perreira, Wave propagation and attenuation in piping systems, *Journal of Vibration, Acoustics, Stress, and Reliability in Design*, 108, 1986, 441–446.

Pejovic, S., A. P. Boldy, and D. Obradovic, *Guidelines to Hydraulic Transient Analysis*, Gower Technical Press, 1987.

Thorley, R. D. and C. H. Tiley, Unsteady and transient flow of compressible fluids in pipelines—A review of theoretical and some experimental studies, *Heat and Fluid Flow*, 8, 1987, 3–15.

Ellis, J., *Pressure Transients in Water Engineering: A Guide to Analysis and Interpretation of Behavior*, Thomas Telford Ltd., 2008.

## FURTHER READING

This list includes books and papers that may be helpful to those who wish to pursue further study.