# 10

# CONTRACTIONS

Flow through a *sudden* or *sharp-edged contraction* is shown in Figure 10.1. The flow *accelerates* as it approaches the contraction and the outer filaments adjacent to the wall achieve a high inward radial velocity of about the same order as the axial velocity. The high radially inward velocity causes the jet to contract and the flow stream to separate from the wall. The point of minimum cross-sectional flow area in the separated region is called the *vena contracta*. The jet subsequently *decelerates* and expands to fill the passage. Rounding, tapering, or beveling the entrance section reduces the high radially inward velocity and substantially reduces the head loss.

## 10.1 FLOW MODEL

Taking the total head loss $H_2$ of a contraction as the sum of the losses in the acceleration and deceleration regions, and treating them as a gradual contraction and a sudden expansion respectively,* gives:

$$
H_2 = K_2 \frac{V_2^2}{2g} = K_{\mathrm{acc}} \frac{V_C^2}{2g} + \frac{(V_C - V_2)^2}{2g},
\qquad (10.1)
$$

where $V_C$ is the local velocity at the vena contracta and $V_2$ is the velocity in the downstream pipe. The first term on the right represents the gradual acceleration of the fluid to the vena contracta and $K_{\mathrm{acc}}$ is the loss coefficient for the acceleration portion of the flow. The second term represents the sudden expansion of the fluid stream downstream of the vena contracta.$\dagger$

Re-arrangement of Equation 10.1 gives:

$$
K_2 = K_{\mathrm{acc}} \frac{V_C^2}{V_2^2} + \left(\frac{V_C}{V_2} - 1\right)^2.
$$

The ratio $V_C/V_2$ can be expressed as the jet velocity ratio $\lambda$ and the equation becomes:

$$
K_2 = K_{\mathrm{acc}} \lambda^2 + (\lambda - 1)^2.
\qquad (10.2)
$$

Undoubtedly, the universal velocity profile exists at the vena contracta as well as in the fully developed flow regions in the upstream and downstream pipes. Nonetheless, the simple assumption is made that the velocity profile is uniform at the vena contracta and in the pipes. Successful correlation with test data in the following sections and chapters validates this simplification.

Equation 10.2 allows for expressing the loss coefficient of various types of contractions (sharp edged, rounded, conical, etc.) by the use of suitable terms for $\lambda$ and $K_{\mathrm{acc}}$ based on available data. Additionally, the jet velocity ratio $\lambda$ can be used to determine the local velocity and, thereby, to estimate the local pressure at the vena contracta.

A term, the so-called beta ratio $\beta$, is used to describe contractions and expansions. For a pipe (or circular)

\* This treatment was suggested by Vennard [1].

$\dagger$ The sudden expansion term derives from Equation 11.5, the Borda-Carnot equation.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

101