# 12

# EXITS

A special case of a sudden expansion occurs when a pipe discharges into a large volume or reservoir. The classic Borda–Carnot equation for a sudden expansion was presented in Chapter 11:

$$
H_L = \frac{(V_1 - V_2)^2}{2g}.
$$

(11.5, repeated)

Here the velocity $V_2$ downstream of the expansion goes to zero, and when the head loss is computed from Equation 10.5, it is found to be one velocity head:

$$
H_L = \frac{V^2}{2g}.
$$

This is the case whether the pipe exit is submerged or open as illustrated in Figure 12.1.*

Many exit configurations are not as simple as a straight pipe. In some cases, exit loss consists of local and friction losses.

## 12.1 DISCHARGE FROM A STRAIGHT PIPE

The relation between loss coefficient $K$ and head loss $H_L$ is:

$$
H_L = K\,\frac{V^2}{2g}.
$$

(3.7, repeated)

When the head loss is given as in Equation 10.7 above, the loss coefficient becomes unity. Equation 3.7 is written as “conventional” head loss, which ignores the kinetic energy correction factor $\phi$. If the kinetic energy correction factor were included, Equation 3.7 would become

$$
H_L = K\phi\,\frac{V^2}{2g}.
$$

In the Borda–Carnot equation $K$ is taken to be unity for conventional head loss. If the kinetic energy correction factor is taken into account, we may elect to absorb $\phi$ into $K$, thus making $K = \phi$. Therefore, in the case of discharge from a straight pipe, the loss coefficient $K$ is simply the kinetic energy correction factor $\phi$ of the flow stream in the exit stretch. This is so whether the pipe projects into the reservoir, or is sharp-edged or rounded at the exit as shown in Figure 12.2.

In general, a value of 1.0, quite suitable for most engineering purposes, is assigned as the value of the kinetic energy correction factor $\phi$ (see Section 2.7). In the case of uniform distribution of velocity, $\phi$ is equal to unity. However, in the case of fully developed flow following a long stretch of pipe, the value of $\phi$ for circular (or square) pipe is 2.0 for laminar flow, and ranges from about 1.04 to 1.10 for turbulent flow.† Nonetheless, in the real world, fully developed flow may also exist at the

\* EGL and HGL are the energy grade line and hydraulic grade line, respectively (see Section 2.9).

† From Figure 2.6 we find that the kinetic energy correction factor $\phi$ ranges from 1.04 to 1.10 for values of friction factor $f$ between 0.01 and 0.03.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide,* First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

131