# 8.5 ALL-REGIME FRICTION FACTOR FORMULAS

In 1977 Churchill [16] published a formula covering all flow regimes—laminar, critical, transition, and fully turbulent—and for any relative roughness. It is based on his 1973 formula and on earlier work with his collaborator, R. Usagi. It also incorporates the laminar flow friction factor formula of Hagen and Poiseuille, and a fit of the data of Wilson and Azad [17] in the critical zone. Churchill’s formula is smooth and continuous.

## 8.5.1 Churchill’s 1977 Formula

Churchill’s 1977 all-regime friction factor formula is:

$$
f_D = 8 \left[ \left( \frac{8}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}} \right)^{12} + \frac{1}{(A+B)^{3/2}} \right]^{1/12},
\qquad (8.5)
$$

where

$$
A = \left[ 2.457 \ln \frac{1}{\left( \frac{7}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}} \right)^{0.9} + \frac{0.27\epsilon}{D}} \right]^{16}
\qquad \text{and} \qquad
B = \left( \frac{37,530}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}} \right)^{16}.
$$

In this formula Churchill used a friction factor that is one-eighth of the customary Darcy friction factor. The multiplier outside the brackets transforms Churchill’s factor into the Darcy factor, hence the $D$ subscript on $f$ (which is used here only to emphasize that this work always uses the Darcy friction factor).

The laminar zone friction factor formula is recognizable in the first term within the brackets in Equation 8.5. The 1973 Churchill formula is recognizable as the expression for $A$, and the critical zone fit of Wilson and Azad is embodied as the expression for $B$.* Churchill’s 1977 function is shown plotted against a backdrop of the Moody chart in Figure 8.1. The figure shows that Equation 8.5 yields excellent agreement with the Hagen–Poiseuille law, Nikuradse’s results in the critical zone, and von Kármán’s formula for complete turbulence, though there is some disagreement in the transition zone.

This formula (or the modification described below) is highly recommended when one is not sure if the Reynolds number is in the turbulent region.

\* As noted in Section 8.3, the engineer must make conservative selection of friction factor when pipe flow operates within the critical zone.

## 8.5.2 Modifications to Churchill’s 1977 Formula

A linearized Hoerl function curve fit for $1/\sqrt{f}$ for smooth pipes is:

$$
\frac{1}{\sqrt{f}} = -2 \log_{10} \left[ 0.883 \frac{(\ln N_{\mathrm{Re}})^{1.282}}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}^{1.007}} \right].
$$

This is a much better fit than Prandtl’s proposed fit used by Churchill. When the argument for the logarithm is substituted in the Churchill formula for $(7/N_{\mathrm{Re}})^{0.9}$, the resulting formula gives better fidelity to the Colebrook–White equation for $\epsilon/D \leq 0.002$ in the transition zone, and especially for $\epsilon/D = 0$.

The modified Churchill formula resulting is:

$$
f_D = \left[ \left( \frac{64}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}} \right)^{12} + \frac{1}{(A+B)^{3/2}} \right]^{1/12},
$$

where

$$
A = \left[ 0.8687 \ln \frac{1}{\dfrac{0.883(\ln N_{\mathrm{Re}})^{1.282}}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}^{1.007}} + \frac{0.27\epsilon}{D}} \right]^{16}
$$

and

$$
B = \left( \frac{13,269}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}} \right)^{16}.
$$

In Figure 8.1 it may be observed that the 1977 Churchill formula exhibits some upward “curl” in the transition region from the critical zone to a Reynolds number of about $10^5$. Schroeder [18] makes a case that the Colebrook–White equation itself already predicts a higher than observed friction factor in this region. This curl can be largely eliminated by the addition of a subtractive term, $110\epsilon/N_{\mathrm{Re}}D$, to the Colebrook–White group in the Churchill equation. Then the Churchill equation becomes:

$$
f_D = \left[ \left( \frac{64}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}} \right)^{12} + \frac{1}{(A+B)^{3/2}} \right]^{1/12},
\qquad (8.6)
$$

where

$$
A = \left[ 0.8687 \ln \frac{1}{\dfrac{0.883(\ln N_{\mathrm{Re}})^{1.282}}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}^{1.007}} + \frac{0.27\epsilon}{D} - \frac{110\epsilon}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}D}} \right]^{16}
$$