54 NETWORK ANALYSIS

## TABLE 5.1. Calculated Flow Rate

|  | $q_{\text{Spray}}$ $(\dot{w}_{\text{Spray}})$ | $q_{\text{N1}}$ $(\dot{w}_{\text{N1}})$ | $q_{\text{N2}}$ $(\dot{w}_{\text{N2}})$ | $q_{\text{N3}}$ $(\dot{w}_{\text{N3}})$ | $q_{\text{N4}}$ $(\dot{w}_{\text{N4}})$ | $q_{\text{N5}}$ $(\dot{w}_{\text{N5}})$ | $q_{\text{N6}}$ $(\dot{w}_{\text{N6}})$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Flow rate, gpm | 6000 | 481 | 490 | 499 | 506 | 511 | 513 |
| (lb/s) | (833.0) | (66.8) | (68.1) | (69.3) | (70.2) | (70.9) | (71.2) |

$$
p_1 = p_7 + \frac{\dot{w}_{\mathrm{N4}}^2}{288 g \rho_w A_3^2}
\left[
\left(0.81 - 1.13 \frac{\dot{w}_{34}}{\dot{w}_{\mathrm{N4}}}\right)\frac{d_3^4}{d_6^4} + 1.00 +
1.12 \frac{d_3}{d_6} - 1.08 \frac{d_3^3}{d_6^3} + K_{Ent.} + K_{Ell} + K_{Noz}
\right],
\qquad (17)
$$

$$
p_1 = p_7 + \frac{\dot{w}_{\mathrm{N5}}^2}{288 g \rho_w A_3^2}
\left[
\left(0.81 - 1.13 \frac{\dot{w}_{45}}{\dot{w}_{\mathrm{N5}}}\right)\frac{d_3^4}{d_6^4} + 1.00 +
1.12 \frac{d_3}{d_6} - 1.08 \frac{d_3^3}{d_6^3} + K_{Ent.} + K_{Ell} + K_{Noz}
\right],
\qquad (18)
$$

$$
p_1 = p_7 + \frac{\dot{w}_{\mathrm{N6}}^2}{288 g \rho_w A_3^2}
\left[
\left(0.81 - 1.13 \frac{\dot{w}_{56}}{\dot{w}_{\mathrm{N6}}}\right)\frac{d_3^4}{d_6^4} + 1.00 +
1.12 \frac{d_3}{d_6} - 1.08 \frac{d_3^3}{d_6^3} + K_{Ent.} + K_{Ell} + K_{Noz}
\right],
\qquad (19)
$$

## TABLE 5.2. Calculated Header Pressure

|  | $p_0$ | $p_1$ | $p_2$ | $p_3$ | $p_4$ | $p_5$ | $p_6$ |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| Pressure, psig | 80.7 | 34.6 | 36.3 | 37.4 | 39.1 | 40.1 | 40.7 |

Note that header pressures and nozzle flows increase along the length of the header pipe in this particular manifold design. Header pressure increases because velocity head is converted to pressure head within the sparger arm as flow is removed through the branches, and this increase in pressure is greater than the drop in pressure due to friction and local loss between the header branches. If friction and local losses between the branches were increased so that they overcome the conversion of velocity head into pressure head, header pressure and nozzle flows would decrease along the length of the header.

### 5.5.5 Solution

There are 19 equations and 19 unknowns ($p_0, p_1, p_2, p_3, p_4, p_5, p_6, \dot{w}_{01}, \dot{w}_{12}, \dot{w}_{23}, \dot{w}_{34}, \dot{w}_{45}, \dot{w}_{56}, \dot{w}_{N1}, \dot{w}_{N2}, \dot{w}_{N3}, \dot{w}_{N4}, \dot{w}_{N5}$, and $\dot{w}_{N6}$). Thus the equations can be solved simultaneously. Several general-purpose computational software programs are capable of solving simultaneous equations.* Because of the repetitive nature of the equations, and because the branches “come together” at a common node, the solution may also be obtained by compiling a Basic or Fortran computer program, or by employing a spreadsheet program.

Calculated flow rates and header pressures are given in Tables 5.1 and 5.2.

A check of Reynolds numbers revealed that flow is fully turbulent throughout the ring sparger. Thus there was no need to adjust pipe friction factors.

The nozzle flow rates are fairly uniform so adequate spray coverage is assured. The inlet pressure $p_0$ is within the pressure capacity of the water supply system and the internal pressure of the sparger is well within the pressure capacity of schedule 40 steel pipe.

\* The simultaneous equations in the example problems in this chapter were solved using Mathcad (PTC Corporation, Needham, MA), a software program used in engineering and other areas of technical computing. Be aware that some versions may limit the number of simultaneous equations that can be solved to fifty or less. Another computational software program, Mathematica (Wolfram Research, Champaign, IL), is also capable of solving simultaneous equations. Both programs have extensive capabilities and have first-rate user’s manuals.

## 5.6 EXAMPLE PROBLEM: CORE SPRAY SYSTEM

Two independent core spray systems are designed to cool the core of a nuclear reactor in the event of a loss of coolant accident (LOCA), in which a break is postulated in any steam or liquid line that forms part of the reactor coolant pressure boundary. The core spray pump draws water from a suppression chamber located below the reactor vessel and injects it into the reactor vessel through spargers (pipe manifolds with spray nozzles) located above the reactor core as shown in Figures 5.3 and 5.4. To enhance plant safety, the core spray system contains redundant pumps, valves, spargers, and so on, and can draw water from an alternate source, but these features are not shown for simplicity. A minimum flow bypass line protects the pump when it operates at or near shutoff head.

Vessel pressure and core flow begin to decrease and water level begins to drop immediately after the start of the postulated LOCA event. The core spray pump is initiated at the beginning of the blowdown period and the injection valve is opened when the pressure in the reactor vessel reaches 120 psia. The core spray system continues to provide cooling water to the top of the core as the vessel pressure drops to or near atmospheric. The purpose of this analysis is to: