# 8.3 THE MOODY CHART

The various equations for friction factor, although suitably summarizing the data on pipe flow, were hardly suitable for engineering use in the days prior to the use of computers. It was opportune to introduce a composite plot for presentation of the friction factor.

As described in Chapter 3, in 1944 American engineer L.F. Moody [3] developed a composite plot of all regions of interest for presentation of the friction factor in a suitable form for engineering use. The chart is repeated at the end of this chapter for convenience (see Diagram 8.1). Other friction factor charts have been developed over the years. The “Moody Chart” is still the popular choice and is still in use today.

# 8.4 EXPLICIT FRICTION FACTOR FORMULATIONS

Because of Moody’s work and the demonstrated applicability of the Colebrook–White equation over a wide range of Reynolds numbers and relative roughness, Equation 8.3 has become the accepted standard for calculating friction factor in the turbulent flow region. Clearly, however, it suffers from being an implicit equation in $f$ and thus requires charts, tables, or successive approximations to extract the value of $f$. While the Moody Chart is sufficient for the numerical solution of specific engineering problems, cases arise where we need not only specific values but an explicit formulation for the friction factor. For example, in dealing with total losses in a system in which friction is only one of a number of factors, in handling a problem involving the solution of simultaneous equations, or in any problem where we want a direct analytical solution, we may need an explicit expression for friction factor as a function of the controlling variables.

Moody quickly recognized the need for an explicit equation for friction factor and was possibly the first to provide one. Since the end of the 1940s, many alternative explicit equations have been developed to avoid the iterative process inherent in the Colebrook–White equation. Several are offered herein. These approximations vary in the degree of accuracy depending on the complexity of their functional forms; the more complex ones usually providing friction factor estimates of higher accuracy. These formulas may be used on their own merit or may be used as the first guess in the Colebrook–White equation to reduce the number of necessary iterations.

## 8.4.1 Moody’s Approximate Formula

In 1947, Moody [4] proposed the following approximate formulation for friction factor:

$$
f \doteq 0.0055 \left[1 + \left(20,000 \frac{e}{d} + \frac{10^6}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}}\right)^{1/3}\right].
$$

Moody noted that the formula agrees with the Colebrook–White equation for $f$ within an error of $\pm 5\%$ for values of $N_{\mathrm{Re}}$ from 4000 to $10^7$, and for values of $\epsilon/D$ up to 0.01 or values of $f$ up to 0.05.

## 8.4.2 Wood’s Approximate Formula

In 1966, Wood [5] proposed an explicit formula which is valid for $N_{\mathrm{Re}} > 10{,}000$ and for $\epsilon/D$ within $10^{-5}$ and 0.04:

$$
f = 0.094 \left(\frac{\epsilon}{D}\right)^{0.225} + 0.53 \frac{\epsilon}{D} + 88 \left(\frac{\epsilon}{D}\right)^{0.44} N_{\mathrm{Re}}^{\,1.62(\epsilon/D)^{0.134}}.
$$

Wood noted that the accuracy of the formula in the specified range is between $-4\%$ and $+6\%$.

## 8.4.3 The Churchill 1973 and Swamee and Jain Formulas

Stuart Churchill [6] developed an empirical formula by substituting for Prandtl’s implicit smooth pipe formula (Eq.3.4) an explicit one proposed by Nikuradse in 1932—

$$
f = \frac{1}{\left[1.8 \log_{10}\left(N_{\mathrm{Re}}/7\right)\right]^2}
$$

—in the Colebrook–White equation to obtain:

$$
f = \left\{2 \log_{10} \left[\frac{\epsilon}{3.7D} + \left(\frac{7}{N_{\mathrm{Re}}}\right)^{0.9}\right]\right\}^{-2}.
$$

Churchill’s explicit formula was published in 1973. In 1976, Swamee and Jain [7] published an almost identical formula, in which the constant in the coefficient of the smooth pipe term was tweaked slightly (6.97 vs. 7), perhaps to obtain better accuracy. Their formula gives a friction factor within 3% of that from the Colebrook–White equation for $\epsilon/D$ from 0.000001 to 0.01 and for $N_{\mathrm{Re}}$ from 5000 to $10^8$. If either the Churchill or the Swamee and Jain formula is used for the first guess in the Colebrook–White equation the number of cycles necessary to close for four significant figure accuracy is reduced significantly.

## 8.4.4 Chen’s Formula

Chen [8] proposed an accurate formula encompassing all the normal ranges of $N_{\mathrm{Re}}$ and $\epsilon/D$ within the turbulent region: