# APPROXIMATE COMPRESSIBLE FLOW USING INCOMPRESSIBLE FLOW EQUATIONS

**33**

If we substitute Equation 4.4 for $V^2$ in Equation 4.3, it becomes:

$$
P_1 - P_2 = \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}v}{A_1^2 2g}\left(K_1 - 1 + \frac{A_1^2}{A_2^2}\right).
$$

(4.5)

Because we have assumed that the specific volume changes negligibly, and noting that $A_1$ must equal $A_2$, then the last two terms in the parenthetical expression drop out and the equation becomes:

$$
P_1 - P_2 = K \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}v}{A^2 2g}.
$$

(4.6)

This equation is valid for incompressible flow. If it is used for compressible flow we should write it as:

$$
P_1 - P_2 \approx K \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}v}{A^2 2g}.
$$

(4.7)

## 4.2.2 Using Average of Inlet and Outlet Properties

There are two methods presented here that use the average of the inlet and outlet properties of the flowing fluid. Specific volume is the best property to average. The first method is called the simple method because it assumes that the fluid specific volume is constant throughout the flow path. The second method is called the comprehensive method, and it is similar to the simple method except that it accounts for the effect of specific volume on velocity head.

In using the formulas for these methods, it must be recognized that they work satisfactorily only if the duct area is constant, or if the change in area is gradual, as in a fabricated reducer or expander. However, fabricated reducers and expanders are better described in Chapters 10 and 11. Using the formulas there for $K$ and using the technique shown in Section 4.3.1.5 or at the end of Section 4.3.2 is encouraged.

### 4.2.2.1 Simple Average Properties

The general energy equation for this problem was given in Section 4.2.1:

$$
\frac{P_1 - P_2}{\rho_w} = H_L - \frac{V_1^2 - V_2^2}{2g},
$$

(3.1, rearranged)

and transformed to:

$$
P_1 - P_2 = \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}v}{A_1^2 2g}\left(K_1 - 1 + \frac{A_1^2}{A_2^2}\right).
$$

(4.5, repeated)

This is valid for incompressible flow. If we use it for compressible flow, using the *average* specific volume instead of the specific volume at the inlet or outlet, using $A = A_1 = A_2$ and $K = K_1 = K_2$, the equation should be written as:

$$
P_1 - P_2 \approx K \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}\bar{v}}{A^2 2g},
$$

(4.8)

where

$$
\bar{v} = \frac{v_1 + v_2}{2}.
$$

Equation 4.8 is the simple formula for pressure drop using the average specific volume. In order to implement the equation it is necessary to know the temperatures at the inlet and outlet as well as the respective pressures in order to determine the inlet and outlet fluid specific volumes. For Equation 4.8 (constant-area duct), the temperature at one end may be estimated from the temperature at the other using the following approximate equation:

$$
\frac{T_2}{T_1} \approx F_{PR}\left(\frac{P_2}{P_1}\right)^{(\gamma - 1)/\gamma},
$$

(4.9)

where

$T_1$  = duct inlet absolute temperature,  
$T_2$  = duct outlet absolute temperature,  
$P_1$  = duct inlet absolute pressure,  
$P_2$  = duct outlet absolute pressure, and  
$F_{PR} \approx a + b(P_2/P_1) + c(P_2/P_1)^2$.

In this equation, $F_{PR}$ is a parabolic fit of the ratio of $T_2/T_1$ in adiabatic flow with friction as determined by the equations in Section 4.3.1 to the temperature ratio $T_2/T_1$ in a nonflow adiabatic process. The product of $F_{PR}$ and the nonflow adiabatic temperature ratio $(T_2/T_1)^{(\gamma-1)/\gamma}$ yields an approximate value of the adiabatic flow temperature ratio. It is then possible to determine the values of inlet and outlet specific volumes from gas or steam tables, or by the ideal gas equation $v = RT/P$.

The constants in Equation 4.9 and its limits of applicability are given in Table 4.1, in which $\Delta P$ is $P_1 - P_2$.

The error between the results using Equation 4.8 and using the ideal theoretical formula given in Section

**TABLE 4.1. Constants and Limits for $F_{Pr}$**

| $\gamma$ | $a$ | $b$ | $c$ | Limits |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---|
| 1.4 | 1.650 | $-1.090$ | 0.4412 | For $20 \leq K \leq 100$: $\Delta P/P_1 \leq 0.4$ |
| 1.3 | 1.496 | $-0.8209$ | 0.3265 | For $3 \leq K < 20$: $\Delta P/P_1 \leq 0.3$ |