# REFERENCES

1. Benedict, R. P., N. A. Carlucci, and S. D. Swetz, Flow losses in abrupt enlargements and contractions, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Journal of Engineering for Power*, 88, 1966, 73–81.

2. Harris, C. W., The Influence of Pipe Thickness on Re-Entrant Intake Losses, *University of Washington Engineering Experiment Station*, Bulletin No. 48, November 1, 1928.

3. Weisbach, J., *Mechanics of Engineering*, translated by, E. B. Coxe, Van Nostrand Book Co., 1872.

4. Hamilton, J. B., Suppression of Pipe Intake Losses by Various Degrees of Rounding, *University of Washington Engineering Experiment Station*, Bulletin No. 51, November 15, 1929.

# FURTHER READING

This list includes works that may be helpful to those who wish to pursue further study.

Rouse, H. and M. M. Hassan, Cavitation-Free Inlets and Contractions, *Mechanical Engineering*, 1933, pp. 213–216.

Deissler, R. G., Turbulent heat transfer and friction factor in the entrance region of smooth passages, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 76, 1955, 1221–1233.

Ross, D., Turbulent flow in the entrance region of a pipe, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers*, 78, 1956, 915–923.

Campbell, W. D. and J. C. Slattery, Flow in the entrance of a tube, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Journal of Basic Engineering*, 88, 1963, 41–46.

Barbin, A. R. and J. B. Jones, Turbulent flow in the inlet region of a smooth pipe, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Journal of Basic Engineering*, 85, 1974, 29–34.

Wang, J.-S. and J. P. Tullis, Turbulent flow in the entry region of a rough pipe, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Journal of Fluids Engineering*, 96, 1974, 62–68.

Dong, W. and J. H. Lienhard, Contraction coefficients for Borda mouthpieces, *Transactions of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Journal of Fluids Engineering*, 108, 1986, 377–379.

Bullen, P. R., D. J. Cheeseman, L. A. Hussain, and A. E. Ruffell, The determination of pipe contraction pressure loss coefficients for incompressible turbulent flow, *International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow*, 8(2), 1987, 111.

Bullen, P. R., D. J. Cheeseman, and L. A. Hussain, The effects of inlet sharpness on the pipe contraction loss coefficient, *International Journal of Heat and Fluid Flow*, 9(4), 1988, 431.