274 ADIABATIC COMPRESSIBLE FLOW WITH FRICTION, USING MACH NUMBER AS A PARAMETER

Substituting this expression for $P$ in Equation E.14 yields:

$$
M = B\sqrt{T}/P = \frac{B\sqrt{T_t}}{P_t}\left[1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2\right]^{\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}.
$$

We have previously defined $B\sqrt{T}/P$ as $M_{\text{core}}$ without regard as to whether $T$ or $P$ is total or static, so we can write the equation as:

$$
M = M_{\text{core}}\left[1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2\right]^{\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}.
$$

Upon squaring and substituting $X$ for $1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2$, the equation becomes:

$$
M^2 = M_{\text{core}}^2\left[1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2\right]^{2\gamma/(\gamma - 1)} = M_{\text{core}}^2 X^{2\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}.
$$

(E.31)

Solving the equation $X = 1 + M^2(\gamma - 1)/2$ for $M^2$ yielded Equation E.23:

$$
M^2 = \frac{2(X - 1)}{\gamma - 1},
$$

(E.23, repeated)

which, when substituted in Equation E.31, gives:

$$
\frac{2(X - 1)}{\gamma - 1} = M_{\text{core}}^2 X^{2\gamma/(\gamma - 1)}.
$$

If we rearrange this and make the rearrangement equal zero we obtain:

$$
0 = \frac{\gamma - 1}{2} M_{\text{core}}^2 X^{2\gamma/(\gamma - 1)} - X + 1.
$$

If we call the right side of this equation $f(X)$ we get a function that is supposed to equal zero (but it won't equal zero unless we discover the right value for $X$):

$$
f(X) = \frac{\gamma - 1}{2} M_{\text{core}}^2 X^{2\gamma/(\gamma - 1)} - X + 1.
$$

(E.32)

In order to find $X$ we need the derivative of Equation E.32, which is

$$
f'(X) = \gamma M_{\text{core}}^2 X^{(\gamma + 1)/(\gamma - 1)} - 1.
$$

(E.33)

Equations E.32 through E.35 should be applied in the same fashion as Equations E.19 through E.30. Using the functions for $f(X)$ and $f'(X)$ defined above, any degree of precision may be obtained by repeated application of:

$$
X_{i+1} = X_i - \frac{f(X_i)}{f'(X_i)}.
$$

(E.27, repeated)

The value of $X$ at $f'(X) = 0$ is:

$$
X = (\gamma M_{\text{core}}^2)^{-(\gamma - 1)/(\gamma + 1)}.
$$

(E.34)

The value of $f(X)_{\min}$ is:

$$
f(X)_{\min} = \frac{\gamma - 1}{2} M_{\text{core}}^2 (\gamma M_{\text{core}}^2)^{-2/(\gamma + 1)} - (\gamma M_{\text{core}}^2)^{-(\gamma - 1)/(\gamma + 1)}.
$$

(E.35)

The caveats following those equations are also the same for this case:

- If $f(X)_{\min} < 0$, two solutions exist, and since in duct flow what we are interested in is the subsonic solution, our initial guess for $X$, that is, $X_{i=0}$, must be less than $X$ at $f(X)_{\min}$ (that is, $X$ from Eq. E.34 for this case). By making the first guess for $X$ (i.e., $X_{i=0}$) less than $X$ at $f(X)_{\min}$, Equation E.27 searches for the solution on the part of the curve where $f'(X)$ is negative, the descending part of the curve. The subsonic solution lies somewhere on the descending part of the curve and the supersonic solution lies on the ascending part of the curve.
- If $f(X)_{\min} = 0$, this is the limiting condition, and may be treated accordingly.
- If $f(X)_{\min} > 0$, there is no solution, the input conditions are impossible, and the calculation may be halted or redirected, as, for instance, making the pipe diameter larger or reducing the flow rate, depending on what part of your design you are pursuing. If your design has a fixed flow rate, you can increase the pipe size. If your design has a fixed pipe size, you can reduce the flow rate to determine what flow it can handle and from this you can determine the accompanying pressures and temperatures.

## REFERENCES

1. Street, R. L., G. Z. Watters, and J. K. Vennard, *Elementary Fluid Mechanics*, John Wiley & Sons.
2. Shapiro, A. H., *The Dynamics and Thermodynamics of Compressible Flow*, Vol. 1, John Wiley & Sons, 1953.