# TABLE 15.1. Comparison of Equation 15.3 with Other Formulations for Smooth Helical Coils (N = 5)

| $N_{\mathrm{Re}}$ | $d$ (in) | $f^a$ | p (in) | $r$ (in) | Ito [1] | Kubair and Varrier [11] | Mori and Nakayama [12] | Equation 15.3 |
|---|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|---:|
| 20,000 | 2 | 0.0259 | 4 | 10 | 5.5 | 5.5 | 5.4 | 5.7 |
|  |  |  |  | 16 | 8.3 | 8.7 | 8.3 | 8.1 |
|  |  |  |  | 24 | 11.9 | 13.0 | 12.0 | 11.4 |
|  | 4 | 0.0259 | 12 | 16 | 4.5 | 4.4 | 4.4 | 4.9 |
|  |  |  |  | 24 | 6.4 | 6.5 | 6.4 | 6.5 |
|  |  |  |  | 36 | 9.2 | 9.8 | 9.2 | 9.0 |
|  | 8 | 0.0259 | 16 | 36 | 5.0 | 4.9 | 4.9 | 5.3 |
|  |  |  |  | 48 | 6.4 | 6.5 | 6.3 | 6.5 |
|  |  |  |  | 72 | 9.2 | 9.8 | 9.2 | 9.0 |
| 200,000 | 1 | 0.0158 | 4 | 10 | 3.7 | (Formula out of range) | 3.4 | 3.9 |
|  |  |  |  | 16 | 5.4 |  | 5.1 | 5.4 |
|  |  |  |  | 24 | 7.7 |  | 7.6 | 7.3 |
|  | 2 | 0.0158 | 12 | 16 | 3.1 |  | 2.7 | 3.4 |
|  |  |  |  | 24 | 4.3 |  | 4.0 | 4.4 |
|  |  |  |  | 36 | 6.0 |  | 5.7 | 5.8 |
|  | 4 | 0.0157 | 16 | 36 | 3.4 |  | 3.0 | 3.6 |
|  |  |  |  | 48 | 4.3 |  | 4.0 | 4.3 |
|  |  |  |  | 72 | 6.0 |  | 5.7 | 5.8 |

$a$ Friction factor was calculated using Equation 8.3, assuming a surface roughness $e = 0.000060$ in for smooth pipe or tubing.

predict the ratio of $f_c$ to the friction factor for straight tubes $f_s$. Typically, they are limited to specific coil geometry and ranges of Reynolds number bounded by the authors test data.

## 15.2.1 Constant Pitch Helix

Equation 15.1 was adapted to the geometry of a constant pitch helix as follows:

$$
K = N \left[ f \frac{\sqrt{(2 \pi r)^2 + p^2}}{d} + 0.20 + 4.8f \right],
\qquad (15.3)
$$

where N is the number of coils and $f$ is the friction factor for straight pipe.* The formulation is based on peak secondary flow as for two 180° bends per coil. The flow separation term was ignored. Equation 15.3 compares well to equations developed by Ito [1], Kubair and Varrier [11], and Mori and Nakayama [12] for smooth-walled helical coils as shown in Table 15.1.

Equation 15.2 is applicable to rough pipes as well as to smooth pipes, whereas the other formulations are limited to smooth wall pipe. Also, the other formulations have Reynolds number and geometry limitations.

## 15.2.2 Constant Pitch Spiral

Similarly as for a constant pitch helix, Equation 15.1 was adapted to the geometry of a constant pitch spiral:

$$
K = f \frac{\pi (r_{Max}^2 - r_{Min}^2)}{pd} + N(0.20 + 4.8f) + \frac{13.2f}{(r_{Min}/d)^2}
\qquad (15.4a)
$$

or

$$
K = \frac{r_{Max} - r_{Min}}{p} \left[ f\pi \left( \frac{r_{Max} + r_{Min}}{d} \right) + 0.20 + 4.8f \right] + \frac{13.2f}{(r_{Min}/d)^2},
\qquad (15.4b)
$$

where N is the number of coils, $f$ is the friction factor for straight pipe, and $r_{Max}$ and $r_{Min}$ are maximum and minimum radii.† The last term, flow separation, is small and is negligible in most cases.

Limited data are available for constant pitch spirals. Equation 15.4 is compared to a formulation by Kubair and Kuloor [13] in Table 15.2. The Reynolds number

\* Note that $\sqrt{(2 \pi r)^2 + p^2}$ is the centerline length of one 360° helical coil.

† Note that $\pi (r_{Max}^2 - r_{Min}^2)/p$ is the approximate centerline length of a constant pitch spiral. Also, note that $r_{Max} - r_{Min}/p$ is equal to N.