of several feet to preclude pump damage. The margin may depend on the type of pump, the type of liquid and condition of the liquid, and other variables. Check with your pump manufacturer for its specific margin requirements.

Meanwhile, the term *NPSHA*, or *net positive suction head available*, also expressed in feet (or meters) of liquid, depends on knowledge of the liquid vapor pressure and the pressure of the liquid at the pump suction inlet during operation. NPSHA can be determined analytically. Let:

$A$  
represent the inlet port area of the pump (usually the same as inlet pipe area).

$g$  
represent the acceleration of gravity.

$H_S$  
represent the elevation head of the surface of the pump suction supply above the pump datum elevation*. If it is below the pump datum elevation, it is negative.

$K_L$  
represent the loss coefficient of the suction line from the suction vessel to the pump inlet, in terms of the velocity $V_P$ in the pipe. This includes losses due to surface friction, fittings, strainers, and valves.

$P_P$  
represent the absolute static pressure at the pump inlet.

$P_S$  
represent the absolute static pressure at the *surface* of the pump suction supply. This will be atmospheric pressure if the suction vessel is open to the atmosphere. If the suction is taken from an enclosed vessel, $P_S$ is the absolute pressure in the vessel.

$P_V$  
represent the pressure that is required to keep the fluid in the liquid state at the prevailing liquid temperature. It is obtained from a vapor pressure table.

$V_P$  
represent the velocity of the liquid at the pump inlet.

$\dot{w}$  
represent the weight flow rate.

$\rho_w$  
represent the weight density of the liquid.

The energy equation from the surface of the pump suction supply to the suction inlet of the pump is:

$$
\frac{P_S}{\rho_w} + H_S = \frac{P_P}{\rho_w} + \frac{V_P^2}{2g} + K_L \frac{V_P^2}{2g}.
$$

Rearranging Equation 20.1 gives:

$$
\frac{P_P}{\rho_w} + \frac{V_P^2}{2g} = \frac{P_S}{\rho_w} + H_S - K_L \frac{V_P^2}{2g},
$$

where the term on the left side of the equals sign represents the total pressure head available at the pump suction.† NPSHA represents the total suction head available minus the vapor pressure $P_V$ of the liquid. Therefore, NPSHA expressed in feet of liquid is:

$$
\text{NPSHA} = \frac{P_S}{\rho_w} + H_S - K_L \frac{V_P^2}{2g} - \frac{P_V}{\rho_w}
$$

or

$$
\text{NPSHA} = \frac{P_S}{\rho_w} + H_S - K_L \frac{\dot{w}^{\,2}}{2g\rho_w^2A^2} - \frac{P_V}{\rho_w}. \qquad (20.1)
$$

Clearly, the pumping system should be designed so NPSHA (available) is greater than NPSHR (required). Keep in mind that pumping system parameters (flow rate, fluid temperature, supply pressure, and supply elevation) can vary over the operating range of the pumping system. “Worst-case” values are usually used when calculating NPSHA.

NPSHA can be increased by:

- Raising the pump suction supply elevation or lowering the elevation of the pump.
- Increasing the pressure at the surface of the pump suction supply.
- Increasing suction pipe size or decreasing its length.
- Utilizing and maintaining low pressure drop valves, strainers, pipe bends, and so on in the pump suction line.

## 20.4 EXAMPLE PROBLEM: CORE SPRAY PUMP

The flow performance of a nuclear reactor core spray system during a postulated loss of coolant accident (LOCA) was evaluated in Section 5.6. The injection valve was opened and vessel pressure was progressively decreased from 120 to 14.7 psia to simulate core spray injection during vessel blowdown during the postulated event. Two valve lineups were considered: (1) the pump bypass valve remained open and (2) the pump bypass valve was closed. As an exercise to take into account the

\* For horizontal pumps the datum elevation is the centerline of the pump shaft; for vertical single-suction pumps, both volute and diffusion vane type, it is the entrance eye to the first stage impeller; for vertical double-suction pumps it is the impeller discharge horizontal centerline. (Vertical and horizontal refer to the direction of the axis of the pump shaft.)

† Total pressure head at the pump suction, *as determined by test*, is the reading of a pressure gauge at the suction inlet of the pump referred to the pump centerline, plus the velocity head at this point.