# 1

# FUNDAMENTALS

In this chapter we consider the fundamentals concerning fluid flow systems, such as the systems of units employed in this work, the physical properties of fluids, and the nature of fluid flow.

## 1.1 SYSTEMS OF UNITS

This book employs two systems of units: the U.S. Customary System (or USCS) and the International System (or SI, for Système International). The latter is based on the metric system, a system devised in France during the French Revolution in the late 1700s, but uses internationally standardized physical constants. Conversions between the systems may be found in Appendix C.

The USCS is virtually indistinguishable from the English gravitational system. There is some confusion in regard to the differences. Some authors imply that in USCS the slug is basic and the pound is derived, while others hold that the pound is basic and the slug is derived. In the English gravitational system the latter is assumed. For general engineering use it does not matter which is basic, because both systems agree that there is the slug for mass, the pound for force, the foot for length, and the second for time. This is all that need concern us in this work. The SI, derived from the metric system and having a much shorter pedigree, is consequently much more standardized.

Much confusion has resulted from the use in both English and metric systems of the same terms for the units of force and mass. To help eliminate the ambiguity owing to this double use the following treatment has been adopted.

The equation relating force, mass, and acceleration is

$$
F = ma,
\qquad (1.1)
$$

where $F$, $m$, and $a$ are defined in the nomenclature. In SI the unit of mass, the kilogram, is basic. The unit of force is derived by means of the equation above and is given a unique name, the newton. Mass is never referred to by force units and vice versa. In the English gravitational system (which predates the USCS) and the USCS, a similar set of units is available and familiar to engineers, but it is not uniformly used. The unit of force, the pound, can be considered to be basic and the unit of mass derived by means of the relation above. It is often called the slug. While the slug is not often used, its insertion here need not pose any inconvenience. Where mass units are called for they may be easily obtained from the pound-force unit by the use of Equation 1.1. By use of these conventions any fundamental equation given in this book may be used with either SI or English units.

It should be noted that Equation 1.1 returns, in the English gravitational system, a mass with units of lb$_f$-s$^2$/ft. This is not easily recognizable, so the engineering community has somewhat arbitrarily chosen the term “slug” to name the mass instead of lb$_f$-s$^2$/ft. Similarly, in SI, the force that comes out of the equation has units of kg-m/s$^2$, and this force has been given the name “newton.” The equation does not contain a factor that transforms lb$_f$-s$^2$/ft to “slugs” or kg-m/s$^2$ to “newtons.”

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

3