$$
\dot{w} = Ag\sqrt{\frac{P_1^2 - P_2^2}{RT\left(2\ln\frac{P_1}{P_2} + f\frac{L}{D}\right)}}
\qquad \text{(for English),} \qquad (4.27a)
$$

$$
\dot{m} = A\sqrt{\frac{P_1^2 - P_2^2}{RT\left(2\ln\frac{P_1}{P_2} + f\frac{L}{D}\right)}}
\qquad \text{(for SI),} \qquad (4.27b)
$$

where $P_1$ and $P_2$ are the inlet and outlet absolute static pressures, respectively.

Generally the solution of these equations must be accomplished by trial and error. Frequently the first term $(2\ln[P_1/P_2])$ of the parenthesis quantity is so small in comparison with $fl/d$ that it may be neglected, thus allowing a preliminary direct solution. It is then much easier to obtain a value of $P_2$ and use it to approximate the first term of the parenthesis, shortening the trial-and-error process as a result. (A spreadsheet method similar to that given in Section 4.5 may be employed to make the solution relatively easy.)

Because the weight flow rate, $\dot{w}$, through the pipe line is constant and given by $\dot{w} = AV\rho_w$ at all sections, the Reynolds number, which is given by

$$
N_{\mathrm{Re}} = \frac{VD\rho_w}{\mu} = \frac{\dot{w}D}{\mu A}, \qquad (1.2, \text{ repeated})
$$

is also constant inasmuch as $\mu$ varies hardly at all if there is no temperature change. In English units $\mu$ is in lb$_m$/ft-s. (The viscosity does change with pressure, but the change is very small if the pressure change is small.) Therefore, with isothermal flow, the friction factor is virtually constant in the duct even though the velocity of the gas will increase and its density decrease as the pressure drops along the flow path.

An important limitation to these equations occurs for large pressure drops ($P_2 \ll P_1$). There is a point beyond which a reduction of $fl/d$ (or $K$) is required for further reduction of $P_2$; therefore, if $K$ is held constant, the pressure cannot drop below this point and thus the equation is applicable only between the pressure $P_1$ and the limiting value of $P_2$.

Equation 4.26 may be written in terms of Mach number, $M$:

$$
\frac{M_1^2}{M_2^2} = 1 - \gamma M_1^2\left[2\ln\frac{M_2}{M_1} + f\frac{L}{D}\right]. \qquad (4.28)
$$

Per Street et al., the limiting value of $M_2$ may be found by differentiating Equation 4.28 with respect to $l$ and setting $dP_2/dl$ equal to infinity. The result is:

$$
M_2 = \sqrt{1/\gamma}.
$$

Equations 4.26, 4.27, and 4.28 are therefore applicable only where $M_1 < M_2 \leq \sqrt{1/\gamma}$.

## 4.5 EXAMPLE PROBLEM: COMPRESSIBLE FLOW THROUGH PIPE

Using Richard Turton’s Equations 4.24 and 4.25 and a spreadsheet, determine the flow of nitrogen gas through a 4" schedule 40 pipe. In his original paper Turton states:

This paper introduces two previously unpublished relationships for adiabatic frictional flow in pipes. These equations allow the direct evaluation of the flow rate for the situation when **upstream conditions and downstream pressure** are known.

Let us assume that the pipe is 100 ft long and its upstream pressure and temperature are 100 psia (14,400 lb/ft$^2$) and 530°R, respectively. The downstream pressure is 84.056 psia (12,104 lb/ft$^2$). The inside diameter of 4" Sch 40 pipe is 4.026 in, and its cross-sectional flow area is 12.730 in$^2$ or 0.088405 ft$^2$. The molecular weight of nitrogen is 28.013 lb/mol$_{lb}$, and its ratio of specific heats is 1.400. The universal gas constant $\bar{R}$ is 1545.31 ft-lb/mol$_{lb}$-°R. The equations are:

$$
f\frac{L}{D} = \frac{\gamma - 1}{2\gamma}\left(\frac{P_1^2T_2^2 - P_2^2T_1^2}{T_2 - T_1}\right)\left(\frac{1}{P_1^2T_2} - \frac{1}{P_2^2T_1}\right) - \frac{\gamma + 1}{\gamma}\ln\frac{P_1T_2}{P_2T_1}, \qquad (4.24, \text{ repeated})
$$

$$
G = \sqrt{\frac{2\gamma}{\gamma - 1}\frac{gP_1^2P_2^2m}{z\bar{R}}\left(\frac{T_2 - T_1}{P_2^2T_1^2 - P_1^2T_2^2}\right)}, \qquad (4.25, \text{ repeated})
$$

where

$f$ = Darcy friction factor,*  
$L$ = duct length, ft,  
$D$ = duct diameter, ft  
$\gamma$ = gas ratio of specific heats  
$P_1$ = duct inlet static pressure, lb/ft$^2$  
$P_2$ = duct outlet static pressure, lb/ft$^2$  
$T_1$ = duct inlet static temperature, °R  
$T_2$ = duct outlet static temperature, °R,  
$m$ = molecular weight of flowing gas, lb/mol$_{lb}$,  
$G$ = gas weight velocity, lb/s-ft$^2$  
$g$ = acceleration of gravity, ft/s$^2$  
$z$ = gas compressibility factor, dimensionless, and  
$\bar{R}$ = universal gas constant, ft-lb/mol$_{lb}$-°R.

\* Having worked this problem before, we can “guess” that $f = 0.016466$.