32  
COMPRESSIBLE FLOW

estimate the pressure drop. The formula for this method is given in the later part of Section 4.2.2 below, with an error chart for the adiabatic case.

4. Incompressible flow formulas may be used with “expansion factors,” correction factors to account for compressible flow behavior. The correction factors are generally presented in the form of charts giving the factor (“$Y$”) as a function of the relative pressure drop $(\Delta P/P_{\text{inlet}})$. While convenient, this method suffers from the disadvantage of requiring a different set of expansion factors for each value of the isentropic exponent $\gamma$. This is not a serious disadvantage for low pressure flow for many gases, but at higher pressures and/or lower temperatures the isentropic exponent varies considerably from its usual, ambient condition value. This technique is valid only for adiabatic flow in constant-area ducts. Formulas and charts are given in Section 4.2.3 below.

5. The ideal equation for compressible flow with friction may be used directly, using Mach number as a parameter. Indeed, this is the method used to determine the expansion factors used in method (4) above. The disadvantage of this method is that it usually requires a dedicated computer program to use, but for those who do not consider this to be a disadvantage they are presented. (The equations are considered to be ideal because the velocity profile is assumed to be flat and therefore $\theta$ and $\phi$ are unity, and the fluid's properties are assumed to be constant. The viscosity is also assumed to be constant so that friction factor does not change.) The equation for isothermal flow is different from the one for adiabatic flow. These formulas are shown in Sections 4.3.1 and 4.4 below.

6. The ideal equation for compressible flow with friction, using static pressures and temperatures at the inlet and outlet as parameters, is presented. This method is mathematically similar to the method for adiabatic flow in (5) above but the Mach number is not used. This method is given in Section 4.3.2 below.

# 4.2 APPROXIMATE COMPRESSIBLE FLOW USING INCOMPRESSIBLE FLOW EQUATIONS

This section demonstrates the use and accuracy of three approximate methods.

## 4.2.1 Using Inlet or Outlet Properties

This method works fairly well for pressure drops that are below 10% of the inlet pressure.

Neglecting elevation head $Z$, the energy equation for *incompressible* flow in a duct is:

$$
\frac{P_1-P_2}{\rho_w}=H_L-\frac{V_1^2-V_2^2}{2g},
$$

(3.1, rearranged)

where  
$P_1$ = inlet static pressure, lb/ft$^2$,  
$P_2$ = outlet static pressure, lb/ft$^2$,  
$\rho_w$ = flowing fluid specific weight, lb/ft$^3$,  
$H_L$ = loss of head, ft-lb/lb,  
$V_1$ = inlet velocity, ft/s,  
$V_2$ = outlet velocity, ft/s, and  
$g$ = acceleration of gravity, 32.1740 ft/s$^2$.

By multiplying both sides of the equation by $\rho_w$ we may write:

$$
P_1-P_2=\rho_w\left(H_L-\frac{V_1^2-V_2^2}{2g}\right).
$$

Noting that $\rho_w=1/v$ we may change this to:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{1}{v}\left(H_L-\frac{V_1^2-V_2^2}{2g}\right).
$$

(4.1)

When we substitute the formula for $H_L$, which is

$$
H_L=f\,\frac{L}{D}\,\frac{V^2}{2g}=K\,\frac{V}{2g},
$$

(3.2, repeated)

into Equation 4.1 we obtain:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{1}{v}\left(K\,\frac{V^2}{2g}-\frac{V_1^2-V_2^2}{2g}\right).
$$

(4.2)

If we refer all the resistance coefficients $K$ in the stretch of duct we are considering to the area at point 1 and sum the terms, we make the head loss term specific, and making this distinction changes Equation 4.2 to:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{1}{v}\left(K_1\,\frac{V_1^2}{2g}-\frac{V_1^2}{2g}+\frac{V_2^2}{2g}\right).
$$

Factor out $V_1^2/2g$ and we obtain:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{V_1^2}{2gv}\left(K_1-1+\frac{V_2^2}{V_1^2}\right).
$$

(4.3)

Because $A V \rho_w=\dot{w}$, which for uniform flow is constant throughout the duct, we may write:

$$
V^2=\frac{\dot{w}^2}{A^2\rho_w^2}=\frac{\dot{w}^2 v^2}{A^2}.
$$

(4.4)