# 23

# FLOW TO RUN FULL

Whether or not horizontal flow passages run full at low flow rates may be an important design consideration. For example, relatively cold fluid may discharge into a vessel filled with a hot fluid through a horizontal opening. At low flow rates, the space above the cold fluid at the opening may be occupied by hot fluid because of the difference in density of the two fluids.* If the flow tends to be unsteady, temperature cycling may occur in the discharge openings and cause thermal fatigue of the metal surfaces. A related but different example is stratification of cold fluid at the bottom of a horizontal pipe: hot fluid, or vapor, at the top of the pipe may produce excessive thermal loads on the pipe and its supports.

If the flow rate of the fluid is not sufficient to fill the opening, the condition is called *open flow*. If the flow rate is just enough to fill the opening, the condition is called *full flow* or *flow to run full*. *Submerged flow* is the condition in which the surface level of the heavy fluid is above the top of the opening. The governing relationships are developed using energy and continuity equations. Inertial and gravitational forces dominate. Shear stresses are considered to exert only a negligible effect on flow and thus viscous forces are ignored. Surface tension forces are also ignored. The solutions assume hydrostatic pressure distribution at the opening.

The Froude number, the ratio of inertial and gravitational forces (see Section 1.3.5), can be used to characterize open flow or, in this case, whether or not horizontal openings run full. The Froude number $N_{\mathrm{Fr}}$ is related to volumetric flow rate in cubic feet per second as follows:

$$
Q = \pi \sqrt{2g}\, R^{5/2} N_{\mathrm{Fr}},
$$

(23.1)

or in gallons per minute as

$$
q = 448.83\pi \sqrt{2g}\, R^{5/2} N_{\mathrm{Fr}}.
$$

(23.2)

## 23.1 OPEN FLOW

Figure 23.1 depicts a heavy fluid discharging into a large space or chamber filled with a light fluid. In this case, the flow rate of the heavy fluid is not sufficient to fill the opening and the condition is called *open flow*.

Using the heavy to light fluid interface in the opening as the reference elevation and ignoring the approach velocity, the energy equation along a streamline crossing the exit of the opening is:

$$
\rho_{\text{heavy}} h = \frac{\rho_{\text{heavy}} u^2}{2g} + \rho_{\text{light}} h.
$$

(23.3)

Rearranging and letting $h = H - y$ gives:

$$
u = \sqrt{2g \left(\frac{\rho_{\text{heavy}} - \rho_{\text{light}}}{\rho_{\text{heavy}}}\right)(H - y)}.
$$

\* Of course, the situation would be reversed if hot fluid were injected into a cold fluid through horizontal openings. At low flow rates, the cold fluid may occupy the space below the hot fluid.

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

235