# 14

# FLOW METERS

A constriction that produces an accelerated flow and a resulting drop in static pressure is an excellent meter in which this pressure difference can be measured and related to the mass or volume rate of flow. The distinctive feature of this group of meters is that there is a marked pressure difference or pressure drop associated with the flow of a fluid through the device. In this pressure differential group of flow measuring devices are the flow nozzle, the Venturi tube, and the nozzle/Venturi. The loss coefficient of another member of this group, the sharp-edged orifice, was dealt with in Section 12.1. Other members are the elbow (centrifugal) meter and the pipe section (frictional resistance) meter.

This chapter deals with overall head loss through the first three pressure differential devices mentioned above. The flow measuring characteristics of all these devices, as well as many other types of flow measuring devices, are extensively dealt with in References [1,2].

## 14.1 FLOW NOZZLE

When the radial distance available between the pipe wall and the nozzle face is limited, rounding may take the form of an ellipse or other curved shape. Such is the case for flow nozzles. The recommended form of the flow nozzle is the “long radius” or elliptical inlet nozzle, in which the curvature of the inlet to the nozzle throat is the quadrant of an ellipse as shown in Figure 14.1. In the case of such noncircular inlets, the rounding radius $r$ is can be expressed as:

$$
r=\sqrt[3]{r_1^2 r_2}, \qquad (10.5,\text{ repeated})
$$

where $r_1$ and $r_2$ are the semimajor (longitudinal) and semiminor (radial) axes, respectively.*)

The flow nozzle is basically a well-rounded orifice except for the addition of a length of cylindrical throat section. Thus the loss coefficient equation developed in Section 13.3.1 for a rounded orifice, supplemented with a surface friction loss term, can be applied to a flow nozzle. When the rounding ratio $r/d_T$ is less than 1:

$$
K_T=0.0696\left(1-0.569\,\frac{r}{d_T}\right)\left(1-\sqrt{\frac{r}{d_T}}\,\beta\right)(1-\beta^5)\lambda^2 + (\lambda-\beta^2)^2 + f_T\frac{l_T}{d_T}\qquad (r/d_T<1),
$$

$$
(14.1)
$$

where the diameter ratio $\beta=d_T/d$, and where the jet contraction coefficient $\lambda$ is given by:

$$
\lambda=1+0.622\left(1-0.30\sqrt{\frac{r}{d_T}}-0.70\frac{r}{d_T}\right)^4
$$

$$
(1-0.215\beta^2-0.785\beta^5)\qquad (r/d_T<1).
$$

$$
(13.7,\text{ repeated})
$$

The results of Equation 14.1 are compared in Figure 14.2 to data from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Fluid Meters [1] for low $\beta$ and high $\beta$ flow nozzles. The relative nozzle radii ratio $r/d_T$ noted

* There is no analytical basis for this expression; however, it works quite well.

---

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

157