# INCOMPRESSIBLE FLOW

will call it the “Prandtl term” because of its origin.) Soon afterwards (1944), Lewis F. Moody [13] published a design chart based on the Colebrook–White formula. The formula and chart (Fig. 3.2) have been so successful that they are still in use today. The chart is popularly known as the “Moody Chart.” See also the diagram in Part II, Chapter 8.

## 3.2.2 Induced Turbulence

The second source of pressure losses in pipe flow, in contrast to pipe friction, is *induced turbulence*. These losses are often referred to as *local losses* or sometimes as *minor losses*, although they are usually far from minor. When turbulence in excess of that normally present in the flow is caused by the flow passage shape, the energy resident in the turbulence is not usually recovered as mechanical energy and is consequently converted to heat. As shown in Chapter 2, mechanical energy converted to heat is described in the energy equation by the head loss term, $H_L$.

A particular solution to the local loss problem antedates the Darcy–Weisbach equation; this is the Borda sudden expansion loss. Jean-Charles de Borda, by reasoning, predicted in 1766 the head loss due to a sudden expansion. In modern terms his prediction may be written as:

$$
H_L=\frac{V_1^2}{2g}\left(1-\frac{A_1}{A_2}\right)^2.
$$

This equation is often called the Borda–Carnot equation. Experiments proved Borda to be correct for the turbulent flow case.

Note that the head loss in Borda’s equation is proportional to $V_1^2/2g$ times a *geometry-dependent constant*. This arrangement has been found to be generally true in subsequent pressure loss work. If we denote the geometry-dependent constant as $K$, the general case of induced turbulence head loss may be written as:

$$
H_L=K\frac{V^2}{2g}.
$$

(3.7)

$K$ is known as the *resistance coefficient* or *loss coefficient*. As shown in Chapter 2, $V^2/2g$ is the *velocity head*, so that $K$ is the head loss measured in velocity heads.

Making use of the fact that $V^2/2g$ is the velocity head, the Weisbach equation (Eq. 3.2) may also be written using the loss coefficient $K$. Factoring the $V^2/2g$ term from the equation shows that Equation 3.7 may be used to describe pipe friction when:

$$
K=f\frac{L}{D}.
$$

(1.3, repeated)

Equation 3.1 may be rearranged as:

$$
\frac{P_1-P_2}{\rho_w}=H_L-\frac{V_1^2-V_2^2}{2g}.
$$

Using the identity $A_1V_1=A_2V_2$ we may write:

$$
\frac{P_1-P_2}{\rho_w}=H_L-\frac{V_1^2}{2g}\left[1-\left(\frac{A_1}{A_2}\right)^2\right].
$$

This is valid when there is a change in the flow area. Substituting Equation 3.7 for $H_L$ and rearranging gives:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{V_1^2\rho_w}{2g}\left[K_1-1+\left(\frac{A_1}{A_2}\right)^2\right].
$$

(3.8)

The loss coefficient for induced turbulence—“local losses”—is ordinarily based on the inlet size, which controls the inlet velocity. With that convention, the loss coefficient is subscripted with a 1, denoting the inlet, and the velocity in the equation must also be the inlet velocity, as shown. If it is desired to base the loss coefficient on the outlet velocity, then the last three steps yield:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{V_2^2\rho_w}{2g}\left[K_2-\left(\frac{A_2}{A_1}\right)^2+1\right].
$$

Using the identity $\dot{w}=AV\rho_w$, we can write:

$$
V^2=\frac{\dot{w}^2}{A^2\rho_w^2}.
$$

Substituting this into Equation 3.8 yields:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA_1^2\rho_w}\left[K_1-1+\left(\frac{A_1}{A_2}\right)^2\right].
$$

If the loss coefficient is based on the outlet size, the pressure drop equation becomes:

$$
P_1-P_2=\frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA_2^2\rho_w}\left[K_2+1-\left(\frac{A_2}{A_1}\right)^2\right].
$$

If the inlet and outlet areas are the same $(A_1=A_2)$, the formula reduces to:

$$
P_1-P_2=K\frac{\dot{w}^2}{2gA^2\rho_w}.
$$