# APPENDIX F

## VELOCITY PROFILE EQUATIONS

In this appendix, the derivations of the velocity profile equations presented in Chapter 2 are shown.

## F1 BENEDICT VELOCITY PROFILE DERIVATION

(Equation numbers in this section are from Benedict [1].)

In his chapter 5, section 5.4, “Turbulent Flow in Smooth Pipes,” Robert P. Benedict gives equation 5.74 (on p. 221 of Reference [1]) that relates the kinetic energy correction factor to the friction factor in any flow situation. It is based in part on equations 5.33 and 5.36 (pp. 201, 203 of Reference [1]), namely:

$$
u = V_c - 2.5V^{\ast}\ln \frac{R}{y},
$$

(5.33)

where

$u$ = local fluid velocity,  
$V_c$ = fluid velocity at the center of the pipe,  
$V^{\ast}$ = friction velocity,  
$y$ = distance of $u$ from the wall, and  
$R$ = radius of pipe;

and

$$
V = V_c - 3.75V^{\ast},
$$

(5.36)

where

$V$ = average velocity of fluid in the pipe and  
$V_c$ = velocity of fluid at the center of the pipe.

The friction velocity is defined (on p. 192) as:

$$
V^{\ast} = \sqrt{\frac{\tau_0}{\rho_m}},
$$

(5.18)

where

$\tau_0$ = fluid shear stress at the wall and  
$\rho_m$ = fluid mass density.

Then:

$$
V_c = V + 3.75V^{\ast}.
$$

(5.36 alternate)

Then Benedict writes:

But (5.36) is bound to define an average velocity that is greater than actual, because the log law of (5.33) does not yield a zero velocity gradient at the pipe center (see Figure 5.18).

One of our questions is, “Does equation 5.36 yield a profile in which $du/dy = 0$ at the center?” The answer is “no,” as Hunter Rouse [2] notes, but this is of little practical effect. Benedict expresses equation 5.33 in slightly modified form as:

*Pipe Flow: A Practical and Comprehensive Guide*, First Edition. Donald C. Rennels and Hobart M. Hudson.  
© 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Published 2012 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

275